052830400 | PUO | 76356238 | | 307625 | 2/20/1997 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/16/1997 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 3/12/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS:
1. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
2. HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA.
3. HYPERTENSION.
4. HISTORY OF CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE WITH FLASH PULMONARY EDEMA.
5. HISTORY OF DEPRESSION.
6. GLAUCOMA.
7. NON-INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS.
8. MITRAL REGURGITATION.
9. CHRONIC RENAL INSUFFICIENCY.
10. HISTORY OF BREAST CANCER STATUS POST LEFT MASTECTOMY AND
TAMOXIFEN TREATMENT.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 69-year-old female
with known coronary artery disease ,
CRF , and history of flash pulmonary edema , recently admitted to
Nessinee Ker Hospital Medical Center on 6/9/97 after sudden onset of shortness of breath
unrelieved by one sublingual nitroglycerin. This shortness of
breath awakened her from sleep. Her blood pressure in the
Emergency Room was 230/110 without EKG changes. She responded well
to IV Lasix and IV nitroglycerin , saturating at 99% on 100%
nonrebreather mask. Chest x-ray was consistent with pulmonary
edema. Her blood pressure was stabilized on IV nitroglycerin with
resolution of her shortness of breath. She was ruled out for
myocardial infarction. The patient was also recently admitted one
month ago to Bussadd Southrys Community Hospital for flash pulmonary edema without
evidence of myocardial infarction. Echo on admission showed 30%
ejection fraction with anteroapical and posterobasal hypokinesis.
Cardiac catheterization in January 1997 showed a 90% proximal RCA
lesion and diffuse distal LAD disease. During vigorous rehydration
following that cardiac catheterization , she developed recurrent
pulmonary edema requiring intubation from which she was weaned
following diuresis. Because her pulmonary edema was believed to be
ischemia related , she was transferred to the Pagham University Of for RCA angioplasty. On this admission , she denies any
chest pain , shortness of breath , or dizziness. She has three
pillow orthopnea , ankle edema. She denies any paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea with the exception of her current presentation. The
patient's coronary risk factors include diabetes mellitus ,
hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , post menopausal status without
hormone replacement therapy , and history of tobacco use. Her
exercise tolerance is such that she develops shortness of breath
with walking one block or one flight of stairs. She reports having
to sit down at every other bench in the mall.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Hypercholesterolemia. Total cholesterol
266 down to 193. 2. Hypertension. 3.
Breast cancer status post left mastectomy seven years ago and
status post five years of Tamoxifen therapy. She has had no other
chemo or radiation treatment. 4. Depression. 5. Hypercalcemia ( no
alkalized syndrome ) 9/13 6. History of recurrent pneumonia. 7.
History of diverticulitis. 8. Glaucoma. 9. Non-insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus diagnosed one year ago , diet controlled. 10.
Chronic renal insufficiency with a history of pyelonephritis at age
three. 11. Mitral regurgitation. 12. Status post total abdominal
hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy at age 40 , hormone
replacement therapy for five years which was then discontinued
secondary to her breast cancer. 13. Status post bilateral knee
replacement.
TRANSFER MEDICATIONS: Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. started three
weeks ago , Axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , enteric
coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day , Isordil 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. ,
hydralazine 50 mg p.o. q.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.day , Timoptic
0.25% one GTT OU b.i.d. , Serax 30 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia ,
and IV heparin at 1 , 300 units per hour.
ALLERGIES: Tagamet causes a rash and adhesive tape.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Notable for a history of tobacco. She quit 17
years ago. She uses no alcohol and no IV drug
use. She lives with her husband in Nabiceco and has six children.
FAMILY HISTORY: Her father died of stomach cancer. Mother , two
aunts , and sister have history of myocardial
infarction at ages greater than 60.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient has been following her weight since
her last discharge ( pulmonary edema ). She
reports a weight loss from 177 to 175 lb over the last couple of
days. She reports a 12 lb weight loss in the last month. She has
no complaints of dysuria or cough.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is a pleasant female , resting
comfortably in bed. Her temperature was
98.5 , blood pressure 156/68 , pulse 78 , respirations 20 , and 95% on
two liters. There was no JVD. Carotids were 1+ without bruits , no
thyromegaly , and no lymphadenopathy. Lungs revealed right basilar
crackles. She was using accessory muscles for respirations. Heart
revealed regular rate and rhythm , normal S1 and S2. There was a
II-III/VI systolic ejection murmur at the LSB. There was a III/VI
holosystolic murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla. There was
no S3 or S4. Her abdomen was slightly distended with no
hepatosplenomegaly. She was guaiac negative. She had 2+ femoral
pulses bilaterally without bruits and 2+ DP pulses bilaterally.
There was no ankle edema. Neurological examination was grossly
intact.
LABORATORY DATA: BUN was 59 , creatinine 3.9 , hematocrit 28.9 , and
MCV 82.3. Magnesium was 2.4. Chest x-ray from
outside hospital was consistent with pulmonary edema. EKG revealed
normal sinus rhythm at 81 , normal axis and intervals ( QT slightly
increased at 0.46 ) , LVH , LAE. There was T flattening in AVL.
There were no acute ST or T wave changes.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE: The patient was much improved after
successful diuresis with improvement
of her pulmonary examination and no evidence of right sided
failure. She was saturating well on room air. Care was taken to
diurese slowly in order to present a prerenal insult. She remained
symptom free for the duration of her hospital course.
2. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE: The patient denies ever having had any
chest pain , but had known anatomy with single vessel disease ( RCA ).
Her history is suggestive of possible silent ischemia consistent
with her diabetic status. Her anginal equivalent appears to be
shortness of breath. The patient underwent cardiac catheterization
on 6/2/97 with PTCA plus stent placement to her RCA with a good
result. She is on Ticlid for two weeks. Her blood pressure was
well controlled in her target range of 140-160 systolic blood
pressure on hydralazine , Lasix , and Lopressor. The day following
cardiac catheterization , her hematocrit and creatinine remained
stable at 30.9 and 3.7 , respectively. On 7/4/97 , her creatinine
increased to 4.2. This increase was thought to be due to a
combination of prerenal insult in addition to possible
dinephropathy. She was hydrated gently and her creatinine was
watched for the next two days , stabilizing in the 4.4 to 4.5 range.
3. CHRONIC RENAL INSUFFICIENCY: Etiology was unknown , possibly
secondary to diabetes mellitus or hypertensive nephropathy. She
has history of creatinine rises to high 3s and 4s during recent
hospitalizations. Hospital course is as described above. In
addition , Axid was changed to renal dosing ( q.day ) and the patient
was treated for a urinary tract infection. In reviewing the
hospital records , there is no evidence of previous work up for
renal artery stenosis. This patient with history and physical to
control blood pressures and flash pulmonary edema in the setting of
hypertension may benefit from further evaluation of possible renal
artery stenosis. This work up was deferred during this
hospitalization due to management of acute issues.
4. DIABETES MELLITUS: This was stable , diet controlled.
5. ANEMIA: The patient was worked up for her baseline low
hematocrit , found to have an iron deficiency anemia treated with
Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. Given her underlying renal failure ,
there may also be a renally driven component to her anemia and she
may benefit from Epogen as an outpatient.
The patient was discharged to home in stable condition to follow up
with Dr. Hermina Tuomala , her cardiologist , in two weeks , and her
primary care physician in one week based on previously scheduled
appointment.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day ,
Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.day , hydralazine 50 mg
p.o. q.i.d. , Isordil 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lopressor 25 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , nitroglycerin 1/150 one tablet sublingual q. 5 minutes
times three p.r.n. chest pain , Timoptic 0.25% one drop OU b.i.d. ,
Axid 150 mg p.o. q.day , and Ticlid 250 mg p.o. b.i.d. for two
weeks. Also , Niferex tablet 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient was instructed to have her
CBC checked at two weeks and four weeks
given her Ticlid therapy.
Dictated By: AUGUSTINA HOOPLE , M.D. GN68
Attending: ROSSIE K. MANKOSKI , M.D. ZC89
UO638/8711
Batch: 09411 Index No. S0WX880A9L D: 10/9/97
T: 11/24/97