057006129 | PUO | 06591496 | | 6289722 | 11/20/2005 12:00:00 AM | ANGINA , MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/20/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 7/30/2005
ATTENDING: BARNABA , CARA CHANCE MD
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS ON ADMISSION: Non-ST elevation , acute
myocardial infarction , and acute renal failure. She was
transferred from the Siscate Nor Hospital to the Pagham University Of
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 78-year-old lady with
diabetes and known coronary artery disease status post CABG and
status post multiple PCIs. She was in her usual state of health
until three weeks ago when she began with classical paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea. She was taken to Siscate Nor Hospital on
three different occasions in the past three weeks prior to
admission , where she was treated for pulmonary edema. Prior to
her admission to the Pagham University Of , she had had a
troponin leak of up to 3.6. This was on the 5 of July . She also was admitted with acute renal failure. Her
creatinine on the 15 of June per note was 1.1. When we
admitted her creatinine was 2.6. This was likely secondary to
the fact that she had received amikacin for urinary tract
infection at the Siscate Nor Hospital and she had also had a
chest , abdominal , and pelvis contrast CT leading to contrast
nephropathy. When she was admitted , her main problems were the
following: She had a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction.
She was a high-risk patient with a TIMI score of 5. She had
acute renal failure probably secondary to a number of factors
including contrast dye what she had received at the outside
hospital and amikacin which she had received for urinary tract
infection. Her other problem was she had a urinary tract
infection per report secondary to E. Coli resistant to Levaquin
and gentamicin.
Her past medical history was relevant for the following:
She had diabetes type 2 with chronic renal insufficiency
secondary to the diabetes. She has anxiety disorder. She had
coronary artery disease status post CABG in 1992. She is status
post PCI with a stent placed in 2002 , and 2004 apparently. She
also had congestive heart failure with an EF per an echo
performed at Siscate Nor Hospital was 35%. She had GERD and
Barrett's esophagus. She had hypertension and
hypercholesterolemia. She had had a pacemaker placed. She had
hemorrhoids. She had osteoarthritis with both knees. She had
spinal stenosis and chronic back pain status post cholecystectomy
and a history of asthma.
Her allergies included the following: Bactrim , penicillin ,
erythromycin , Keflex , Metformin , clindamycin , and ciprofloxacin.
Her social history , she was in a nursing facility. She is
divorced. She has four kinds. Lives in Wa Noo Lietrance and is often
visited by her children.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , her temperature was 96 , her
pulse 77 , her blood pressure was 170/95 , although admittedly it
was difficult taking her blood pressure by auscultation. This
was measured by palpation and confirmed by Doppler. She was
satting 96% on 3.5 L via nasal cannula. She is alert and
oriented x3 in no acute distress. She had arcus senilis. Her
extraocular movements are intact. She had pupils equal , round ,
and reactive to light. Her chest showed bibasilar crackles/rales
two-thirds way up. Her JVP is 10 cm water. Her heart had a
regular rate and rhythm with no gallop. No rubs or murmurs
heard. Her abdomen is benign. Her extremities are warm with no
edema and she is grossly neurologically intact.
Her first set of labs at the Pagham University Of
revealed the following: Sodium 140 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 105 ,
CO2 24 , BUN 40 , creatinine 2.5 , glucose 95 , white blood cell
count of 10.16 , a hemoglobin of 10.0 , platelets 232 , INR 1.5.
Her BNP was 2138. Her lipase was 7. Her troponin level was
0.75.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
Non-ST elevation acute myocardial infarction. On presentation ,
the patient had several EKG changes consistent with an acute
coronary syndrome. She was in normal sinus rhythm with T wave
flattening or inversion in leads V4 to V6 and in the inferior
leads also 2 , 3 , aVF. She had Q-S complexes in V1 through V3.
She was deemed to be a high-risk patient for the TIMI score of
5and they documented troponin leak. She was managed medically ,
not interventionally given her acute renal failure. She was
treated with unfractionated heparin with a PTT level of 50 to 70
seconds. She was given aspirin , Plavix. She was also given
eptifibatide intravenously for five days and is also treated with
beta blockers and ACE inhibitor. After five days , she had no
recurrent chest pain. Her EKG changes were persistent but her
troponin levels have trended downwards and she has really been
asymptomatic in this regard. Regarding her pulmonary edema , we
treated with Lasix initially 40 mg IV Lasix x1 and then on
standing PO Lasix 40 mg daily , and diuresed her and also gave her
morphine and oxygen. Within four or five days , her physical
examination was much better and her crackles and rales had
markedly decreased. On admission , she was saturating 96% on 3.5
L. She progressed. Her oxygen requirements decreased. She was
diuresed and was finally weaned off oxygen and is currently
saturating 97% on room air. The plan is for her to continue on
aspirin , Plavix , high-dose Lipitor , and beta-blocker , and
nitrates as needed.
2. In terms of her acute renal failure , based on the records
from the Siscate Nor Hospital , her creatinine had jumped from
1.1 to 2.5 in three days. This was felt to be most likely due to
intrinsic renal failure. She did not have a low urine output and
she had received amikacin in the past few days prior to admission
as well as contrast dye and she did have a history of contrast
dye induced nephropathy leading to a predialysis state , although
she did not get dialysis on that occasion. Here , we simply
avoided nephrotoxic agents , were judicious in the use of Lasix
with strict ??____?? controls , and her creatinine gradually began
to decrease and today it is down to 1.6. Infectious Disease
wise , she came with the documented urinary tract infection
reported to be due to E. coli resistant to levofloxacin and
gentamicin. Here , we cultured her again and found E. coli more
than a 100 , 000 colonies , which was resistant to ampicillin ,
gentamicin , ciprofloxacin , and levofloxacin. It was sensitive to
ceftazidime and she therefore received renally dosed ceftazidime
for her UTI to complete a 7 to 10-day course. Blood cultures
drawn on the 24 of April showed no growth to date. The
patient has also been afebrile in with a white blood cell count
between 7 and 11 , 000. In terms of her hypertension , of note , it
has been difficult to measure her blood pressure , probably
measuring her blood pressure in her left arm by palpation is a
most reliable way to do this. She was treated here with
hydralazine , Lopressor , and diuretics. On discharge , she feels
well. Today , she told me that she has not filled this for a long
time. She had no recurrent chest pain or shortness of breath.
She is afebrile with a temperature of 98. Her pulse ranges
between 60 and 70. Her blood pressure is between 102 and 150
systolic and she is satting 95% on room air. Her current weight
is 73 kg and she is deemed to be euvolemic so this should be her
target weight and she is ambulating with assistance. She is
alert and oriented x3 in no acute distress. She has got pupils
equal , round , and reactive to light. She has only a few
bibasilar crackles on bases. Otherwise , her lungs are clear.
Her heart has a regular rate and rhythm with no gallops , rubs , or
murmurs. Her abdomen is benign. Her extremities are warm. Her
right calf is quite tender to palpation. She has a documented
old DVT in her gastrocnemius vein. This is old and she has
probably got some postphlebitic syndrome and should be followed.
She is neurologically grossly intact.
Her laboratories at discharge include the following:
Sodium 139 , potassium 4.7 , her creatinine is 1.6 , BUN is 50 , her
white blood cell count is 11.01 , hematocrit 28.5 , hemoglobin 9.2 ,
and platelets 258 with an INR of 1.2.
Her medications at discharge include the following:
1. Enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg orally daily.
2. Ceftazidime 1 g IV q.24h. until August to complete a
7-day course.
3. Colace 100 mg orally twice a day in case of constipation.
4. Lasix 40 mg orally every 12 hours.
5. Heparin 5000 units subcutaneously three times a day , while
the patient is bedridden.
6. Isosorbide dinitrate 10 mg orally three times a day.
7. Lopressor 37.5 mg orally three times a day with hold
parameters , hold if systolic blood pressure is less than 110 , or
a heart rate is less than 55.
8. Sublingual nitroglycerin as needed.
9. Vicodin one tablet every six hours in case of pain.
10. Risperidone 0.5 mg orally once a day.
11. Lipitor 80 mg orally once a day.
12. Plavix 75 mg orally once a day.
13. Celexa 20 mg orally once a day.
14. Esomeprazole 20 mg orally once a day.
15. Lantus 17 units subcutaneously every morning.
16. Novolog sliding scale.
DISPOSITION AND PLAN: The patient is to go to rehabilitation.
Things to do specifically include the following:
She should be diuresed with Lasix as needed to achieve a dry
weight goal of 72 kg. She should continue on ceftazidime for her
urinary tract infection until August and her calf pain -
DVT should be followed , one possibly to raise the Siscate Nor Hospital as this may represent in a cold malignancy , for which she
may need to be worked up once the acute setting is over.
Studies performed at this hospital include the following:
A renal ultrasound as part of her workup for acute renal failure
reveal a right kidney with a size of 11.8 cm and apical cortical
cyst , left kidney 10.6 cm , and no hydronephrosis. The patient
also had a MIBI , SPECT of her heart , which revealed the
following:
The combined ??____?? ischemia plus scar during the stress were
moderately abnormal with a summed stress score of 9. Her rest LV
ejection fraction was 50%. The patient's PET CT test results
were normal and consistent with a small region of myocardial
ischemia in the septal area and also a focus of ischemia in the
OM territory. She had abnormal global LV systolic function and
these results demonstrated in interval progressing per her prior
study performed on November , 2004.
eScription document: 0-5615808 ISSten Tel
CC: Cara Chance Barnaba MD
Nebraska
Jo Reve
CC: Leone Bonnie
Setlake Caardlin County Medical Center
Quisbed Street , Lis Chi , Pennsylvania
De
Dictated By: BEOUGHER , GEORGINE JENIFER TRACIE
Attending: BARNABA , CARA CHANCE
Dictation ID 5556110
D: 9/19/05
T: 9/19/05