838440387 | PUO | 59556390 | | 4823857 | 1/22/2006 12:00:00 AM | chest pain | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 1/22/2006 Report Status: Unsigned
Discharge Date: 2/9/2007
ATTENDING: CADOFF , LINDY MD
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Dizziness , weakness and chest pressure.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 82-year-old female with a
prior history of hypertension , diabetes , coronary disease status
post CABG and angio interventions. She was in her usual state of
health until returning from the bathroom at 1 a.m. on the day of
admission when she felt weak. She describes the sensation as if
she was going to die. She had a burning sensation in her mid
sternum and upper abdominal pain and also felt lightheaded. The
patient describes the pain is worse when lying flat and
associated with mild shortness of breath and intermittent nausea
without vomiting. She denies radiation of the pain.
Of note , the patient has had many recent HTN episodes in the
w/associated lightheadedness
prompting many visits to the Norap Valley Hospital Emergency Room. She was admitted about one to two weeks ago to
the Norap Valley Hospital for similar complaints with hypertensive
urgency. Her blood pressure medications were adjusted. She had
a negative cardiac workup.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies cough , cold symptoms ,
fevers , chills , weight changes , changes in vision , numbness ,
diarrhea , melena or urinary symptoms. She reports her dry weight
of 152 pounds. Fingerstick blood sugars per the patient on
report had been in the low 100s recently and she had been
complaint with all her medications.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension , diabetes , coronary disease ,
CABG x2 with redo sternotomy both in the 1970s and 1990s ,
peripheral artery disease , renal artery stenosis , status post
left renal stent , paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , right carotid
endarterectomy.
HOME MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 325 mg daily , Plavix 75 mg daily ,
glyburide 1.25 mg daily , Lasix 20 mg daily , Toprol XL 50 mg
daily , Lisinopril 15 mg b.i.d. ( recently increased to this dose
while at during her last admission to the P Therford Hospital ) and Lipitor
80 mg daily.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin which causes rash.
FAMILY HISTORY: Identified as noncontributory.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a retired nurse who had worked in
Put Wathern Hospital . She lives with her son. She has four children
who are alive and well and living in the area. She has a remote
smoking history. She denies alcohol or illicit drug use.
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She is afebrile. Heart rate 59 ,
blood pressure 136/58 , respiratory rate 18 , oxygen saturation
100% on 2 liters. In general , the patient describes as elderly
lying supine in bed , resting comfortably. She is awake , speaking
in full sentences without difficulty. She is in no acute
respiratory distress. HEENT , normocephalic and atraumatic ,
anicteric sclerae , mucous membranes are moist. Neck is supple
without lymphadenopathy. JVP was approximately 7-8 cm. Chest ,
she had bibasilar fine rales with fair aeration throughout. No
rhonchi or wheezes. Cardiovascular , regular rate and rhythm , S1
and S2 with bradycardic rate at 48 beats per minute. Abdomen has
many old healed scars , no rashes , bowel sounds are positive. She
is soft , nondistended , nontender without hepatosplenomegaly.
Extremities are warm and well perfused. No clubbing , cyanosis or
edema. A 2+ dorsalis pedal pulses. Skin is intact without rash.
Neuro , cranial nerves II to XII intact with no focal deficits.
She is alert and oriented x3. Vascular , she has bilateral
femoral bruits which were audible with stethoscope.
ADMISSION LABS: Sodium 140 , potassium 4.5 , chloride 108 , CO2 23 ,
anion gap of 9 , calcium 9 , magnesium 1.8 , total bilirubin 0.7 ,
BNP 165 , cardiac enzymes were not elevated , white count 6.91 ,
hematocrit 35.9 , platelets 227. Urinalysis was within normal
limits. PT 12.1 , PTT 43.2 , INR 1.0. A portable chest x-ray was
without any evidence of acute pulmonary process. EKG with sinus
bradycardia with rate of 55 with T-wave inversions in leads V5
and V6 , leads 1 , 2 and AVF. All present on prior EKG. There
were no acute ST changes.
EMERGENCY ROOM COURSE: Systolic blood pressure was in 190s. She
received aspirin x1 , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. x1 , Lopressor 5 mg IV
x1 , and blood pressure went down to 170s prior to her transfer to
the floor.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Cardiovascular:
Ischemia: The patient ruled out for myocardial infarction by serial enzymes.
Her EKG was abnormal , but unchanged from 1/28 She continued on aspirin ,
Plavix and
Lipitor. Fasting lipids did not indicate need for change in
statin treatment. On 3/1 , the patient had a recurrence of
her chest pain symptoms in the setting of her only hypertensive
event during this admission. Her EKG was notable for new flipped
Ts in leads V3 and V4 ( which happened to be seen previously
during this admission when she had atrial fibrillation with rapid
ventricular response on 6/3 ). The medical team suspects
hypertensive-induced microvascular angina. A repeat rule out MI
has been re-initiated and is currently in progress at the time of
this dictation. A&amp;B set enzymes were negative.
Pump: Echocardiogram at the Norap Valley Hospital on 10/6
revealed normal left ventricle with an EF of 60% , left atrial
enlargement , 1-2+ mitral valve regurgitation , 1+ tricuspid
regurgitation , and mild pulmonary hypertension ( with pulmonary
artery pressure of 43 ). The patient had fine rales on her admit
exam with BNP of 160. Of note , on 10/6 at Norap Valley Hospital the
patient had her Lisinopril increased to 15 mg b.i.d. to facilitate
better blood pressure control. ACE inhibitor and Lasix were held
during this admission due to arise in her creatinine. Lisinopril was
restarted at a dose reduction of 5 mg b.i.d. and Lasix was restarted
on 3/1 in the setting of symptomatic chest pain which began while the
patient was receiving a second unit of blood ( see heme below of more
details ). Her BNP following the transfusion was 265. The current plan
is to titrate ACE inhibitor to affect as long as her creatinine
does not climb.
Rhythm: The patient had asymptomatic sinus bradycardia with rates ranging
45-58 until 5/3 when she had an episode of atrial fibrillation with rapid
ventricular response
to 130s to 140s. She was effectively treated with
Lopressor 25mg x1 , 5 mg IV x2 , then diltiazem 10 mg x1. The patient later
then converted to sinus rhythm , sinus bradycardia. On 6/8 , the
patient had a 12-22 symptomatic ventricular pause. The consulting
cardiologist ( Dr. Tyacke ) was notified of the atrial
fibrillation and ventricular pause event. Dr. Tyacke
recommended starting an amiodarone load which has been
implemented and is currently in progress. He recommended no
inpatient EP eval this admission because the patient had no
further symptomatic pauses. Dr. Tyacke deferring decision and
arrangements for Holter versus loop monitors to the patient's
outpatient cardiologist Dr. Schweitzerren.
According to the prior cardiac cath reports , the patient should
be on lifelong Plavix. It is Dr. Tyacke 's preference for
the patient to be started on thromboembolic prophylatic Coumadin
( in the setting of paroxysmals of atrial fibrillation ) and to
discontinue the aspirin because of possible bleeding risk on
combination aspirin , Plavix and Coumadin. However , he is
deferring this decision to be made by the patient's outpatient
cardiologist.
Blood Pressure: The cardiologist consultation Dr.
Tyacke felt that the chest pain and hypertension symptoms could
be consistent with recurrence of renal artery stenosis. On
10/27/07 , a Doppler renal ultrasound was notable for significant
re-stenosis of the left renal artery. The patient an
angioplasty and stent was placed without peri-procedure
complication aside from the possibility of small blood loss ( as
will be described in heme section below ).
2. Hematology: The patient has baseline hypoproliferative
normocytic normochromic anemia of chronic disease identified by
iron studies. Her B12 and folate levels were within normal
limits. On 11/8 , the patient had a hematocrit drop from
30-26 , but this was considered to be either a lab variant or due
to blood loss in her subcutaneous tissue from previous Lovenox
injections. Lovenox was discontinued and the team decided to use
TEDs alone for DVT prophylaxis as the patient was ambulatory. On
10/28 , one day post-angio intervention , the patient was complaining of
lethargy. She had a post-procedure crit drop from 30-25 which the
repeat study was stable at 25. Her hemodynamics
was also stable as was her leg exam. The Angiography Team
advised that the hematocrit drop could be as result of blood loss
from recent angio intervention. The Angio Team advised that
there will be no need to pursue imaging to search for source
of blood loss unless the patient has further hematocrit drop or unless she
develops leg , abdominal and back pain symptoms. Because of the
patient's history of coronary disease , she was ordered for a 2units
a blood. She only received one unit of blood because
she was symptomatic with hypertension and chest pain when the
second bag was hung ( see cardiovascular pump section above ).
Post-transfusion hematocrit was 30.1 and was felt no further
blood would be needed.
3. Endocrine: The patient has a history of diabetes. During
this admission , her oral agents were held and the team implemented the
Totin Hospital And Clinic Insulin Diabetic Protocol using NPH basal
insulin and pre-prandial aspart scales. The hemoglobin A1c was
6.8.
4. Fluids , electrolytes , nutrition/renal: The patient had
essentially stable renal function during this admission. A
change in the patient's creatinine from 7/28/28 was
attributed to medication-induced ( likely from recent lisinopril
dose increased from last NVH admit , and/or dehydration ). Lasix was
and ACE inhibitor were both held. Lasix and ACE were both
restarted on 3/1 ( see cardiovascular section above ).
5. Gastrointestinal: During this admission the patient had
reported crampy abdominal pain and diarrhea. The medical team
suspects possible cause could be ischemia in the setting of
hypertension , as the patient has significant celiac disease that
was identified on an MRA obtained at P Therford Hospital in 10/13 All
stool studies were negative and as on 9/6 her diarrhea
resolved.
6. MISC: After a lengthy discussion with the patient , she opted to be a
DNI otherwise wanted all other resuscitative measures.
IMPRESSION: This is an 82-year-old female who presents with
complaints of intermittent lightheadedness and sudden onset of
severe chest and abdominal pressure in the setting of
hypertensive urgency with documented blood pressure of 194/74.
Her symptoms resolved with blood pressure control. The medical
team suspects that:
1. The cause of the patient's episodic lightheadedness prompting
multiple visits to the Norap Valley Hospital may be from atrial
fibrillation with RVR and/or ventricular pauses. Additional
workup for this can be pursued by Dr. Krinsky as an outpatient.
2. Given the significant history of vascular disease and the
findings on recent MRA , the team suspects that the patient may
have hypertension-induced gut ischemia and microvascular cardiac
angina.
This is preliminary discharge summary and the discharge addendum
including discharge medications , final diagnoses and medical
followup will need to be dictated at the time of discharge.
eScription document: 1-9935216 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: HOLLWAY , TABATHA
Attending: CADOFF , LINDY
Dictation ID 7767829
D: 9/5/07
T: 4/29/07