639512267 | PUO | 07902746 | | 8144438 | 3/13/2005 12:00:00 AM | SYNCOPE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/26/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/17/2005
ATTENDING: VAJDA , FRANCISCO M.D.
SERVICE: MBTH Internal Medicine
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Recurrent syncope.
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Cardiac amyloidosis ,
hypertension , coronary artery disease , left popliteal DVT.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: None.
OTHER PROCEDURES NOT DONE IN THE OPERATING ROOM: PICC line
placement on 1/22/05 .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 75-year-old
African-American woman with chronic renal insufficiency , coronary
artery disease , and diabetes and recent admissions for syncope
who was admitted after being found unresponsive and blue with a
systolic blood pressure in the 80s in the bathroom of her nursing
home. Her systolic blood pressure came up to 100 without
intervention , but she was sent to A Salt Medical Center ER for further evaluation. In the ER , her head and
spine CT was negative , her chest x-ray showed right effusion and
her cardiac enzymes were elevated with a troponin of 0.50. She
was given Lovenox , Zofran , and aspirin and admitted for further
management.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease , diabetes ,
cerebrovascular accidents , cortical blindness , hypertension ,
anemia , monoclonal gammopathy , left upper extremity
thrombophlebitis.
MEDICATIONS AT NURSING HOME: Colace , Nexium , Senna , oxycodone
p.r.n. , aspirin , Plavix , Lopressor , Lipitor , and NPH insulin.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin , sulfa and propoxyphene.
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 98.4 , blood pressure
110/80 , pulse 92 , respirations 95% on room air. The patient was
alert and oriented x1 , she was just alert and oriented to person.
Her neck vein showed a JVP less than 8 cm. Her chest was clear
to auscultation but decreased breath sounds on her right base
were noted. She had regular rate and rhythm. Abdomen was soft
with bowel sounds , nontender. Extremities remarkable for 2+
pitting edema , which were symmetric.
REMARKABLE LABS ON ADMISSION: BUN 67 , creatinine 2.6 , white
blood cell count 6.2 , hematocrit 44 , platelets 136 , BNP 880 ,
troponin 0.5.
PERTINENT RADIOLOGIC STUDIES DURING ADMISSION: CT scan to rule
pulmonary embolus on 3/25/05 was negative. Multiple chest
x-rays showed unchanged right pleural effusion , which was small
and not amenable for thoracentesis. ECG showed normal sinus
rhythm at 90 beats per minutes , low voltage , incomplete right
bundle-branch block , left axis deviation , Q-waves inferior and
anterior , no ST depressions or elevations. This was no
significant change from EKG that was done on 2/3/05 .  Lower
extremity ultrasound on 10/21/05 showed left popliteal vein
thrombosis.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Cardiovascular: The patient had troponin elevations during
this hospitalization , the highest being 0.8. This was initially
thought to be consistent with a non ST elevation. However ,
patient had no EKG changes. It was also noted that the patient
had similar elevations of her troponin and was recently admitted
to an outside hospital. She was initially continued on cardiac
regimen of aspirin , Plavix , and Lopressor. On 10/21/05 , the
patient had an episode of hypotension with systolic blood
pressure in the 30s of unknown etiology. She was given IV
fluids , dexamethasone 4 mg and one dose of gentamicin and
vancomycin for presumed sepsis. A bedside echo that was done
showed severe tricuspid regurgitation , diastolic dysfunction and
ejection fraction of 40% and pulmonary pressures in the 60s.
There were wall motion abnormalities that were noted. The
patient was given additional doses of intravenous fluids and her
blood pressures came back to 120s-130s/60s-70s. At this point ,
the etiology of her low blood pressure was still unknown. On
2/16 , patient was again unresponsive with low blood pressure and
no pulse. Code was called and the patient awoke after few chest
compressions was done and had a blood pressure of 130s/70s. She
was subsequently seen by Dr. Haywood Sasnett , cardiologist at Pagham University Of , who thought her overall picture and
echocardiogram was consistent with cardiac amyloidosis. The
patient was thought to have autonomic insufficiency secondary to
amyloid neuropathy and a fixed cardiac output with restrictive
heart. Serum protein analysis subsequently revealed a
predominance of IgG light chains with elevation of both kappa and
lambda light change , which are suggestive but not confirmatory of
type AL amyloidosis. A fat pad biopsy was also done , results
were pending at discharge. Further blood samples were sent to
Lowai Aham Valley Medical Center for further
analysis. The patient will obtain results via her primary care
physician , Dr. Genny Barrette . Of note , the patient had no
further hypotensive episodes prior to discharge.
2. Hematology: The patient was noted to have a low platelet
count of 136 , 000 at admission. It was thought that this could
be due to possible heparin-induced thrombocytopenia but the hep
antibody was negative. On 4/30/05 , lower extremity ultrasound
done after first episode of being unresponsive was positive for
left popliteal vein thrombosis. The patient was started on
heparin intravenous according to protocol. On 10/12/05 , the
patient had nosebleeds and hematuria and her PTT was noted to be
greater than 150. Heparin was stopped until the PTT was between
60 and 80. The bleeding stopped. She was continued on heparin
and her PTT was maintained between 60 and 80. She was later
switched to Lovenox and Coumadin maintaining her INR between 2
and 3. Lovenox was discontinued and on discharge the patient was
just on Coumadin. Her discharge INR was 2.4.
3. Renal: The patient has chronic renal insufficiency with
baseline creatinine of 2.5. A Foley was placed at admission for
patient comfort. She consistently had low urine output during
her hospitalization , averaging about 300-400 cc of urine a day
even after IV fluid administration. She had two days of
hematuria secondary to anticoagulation that resolved after
copious irrigation of the Foley. Her creatinine at discharge was
2.7. There were no acute renal issues.
4. Pulmonary: The patient required oxygen throughout her stay
to keep her saturations above 95%. She had a few episodes of
shortness of breath , which spontaneously resolved. She was given
a few doses of IV Lasix and this helped a little with her
shortness of breath , but her chest x-ray remained unchanged from
admission.
5. Endocrine: The patient has a history of diabetes. She had
normal fingersticks during her hospitalization. She was on a
tight glycemic control with a regular insulin sliding scale.
6. Neuro: The patient was on aspirin and Plavix initially given
her history of CVAs and cortical blindness , but on discharge , she
was on Coumadin for anticoagulation. The patient also had a
lidocaine patch that was applied for 12 hours every day and
oxycodone was used p.r.n. pain.
7. Fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: The patient received IV
fluid boluses during hypotensive episodes. Electrolytes were
followed and repeated accordingly. Nutrition was consulted and
she was placed on a soft pureed diet with a 2-L fluid
restriction , no concentrated sweets. She was also given Nepro
supplements given her renal function.
8. Line: The patient initially had an EJ line , then a femoral
line for access as peripheral access was difficult to obtain.
She then had a PICC line placed on 1/22/05 for access.
9. Disposition: There was a family meeting on 1/22/05 during
which the patient's poor prognosis was discussed with Ms. Penny O Rizas , the patient's daughter. The family emphasized that her
code status was DNR/DNI and they were comfortable with the
discharge back to Highot Pkwy. , Ler , Missouri . They also emphasized that the
patient should be rehospitalized for any acute issues.
10. Code status: DNR/DNI.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , and Colace 100
mg p.o. b.i.d. , Pepcid 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , regular insulin sliding
scale , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.4h.
p.r.n. pain , senna tablets two tablets p.o. b.i.d. , multivitamins
with minerals one tab p.o. daily , trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s.
p.r.n. insomnia and anxiety , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.p.m. , MS Contin
15 mg p.o. q.12h. p.r.n. pain , Lipitor 80 mg p.o. daily , Plavix
75 mg p.o. daily , midodrine 5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , DuoNeb 3/0.5 mg
inhaled q.6h. p.r.n. wheezing , lidocaine 5% patch applied
topically daily for twelve hours.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient was told to call her doctor
for increased shortness of breath , chest pain , fevers or any
other concerns. She was also told to follow up with her primary
care physician as needed.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. The patient is to be transferred
to Ford Glendcalari No Angelessa where she would be under the care of her
primary care physician , Dr. Genny Barrette .
eScription document: 0-0128264 CSFocus transcriptionists
Dictated By: KILDOW , KEVA
Attending: VAJDA , FRANCISCO
Dictation ID 0608721
D: 10/4/05
T: 10/4/05