073178719 | PUO | 99310817 | | 445601 | 2/8/2000 12:00:00 AM | ABD PAIN | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/15/2000 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 7/29/2000
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 33 year-old woman
with diet controlled diabetes
mellitus , morbid obesity , who presents to the emergency department
with periumbilical pain , radiating to the right lower quadrant. In
her first trip to the emergency department her pain was diffuse and
was thought to be gastroenteritis. After being sent home , she had
an increase in pain and vomiting and was unable to tolerate p.o. On
her second trip one day later she was vomiting with no fever but
chills and no flatus. The decision was made to take her to the
operating room to explore for appendicitis.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Non Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ,
diet controlled.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: None.
MEDICATION: None.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was a morbidly obese woman in
no acute distress. She was tachycardic.
Chest was clear. Abdomen was soft with positive bowel sounds ,
tenderness in the right and left lower quadrant with positive psoas
and Rovsing's sign. Rectal examination showed normal tone and no
stool. Pelvic examination showed no cervical motion tenderness.
LABORATORY: Abdominal CT was obtained which showed 5x5 cm cecal
thickening with extraluminal air. This was thought to be consistent with a
perforated appendicitis or phlegmon. CBC showed a white blood
count 19 , 000. Her urine HCG was negative.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the operating room on
May , by Dr. Civale , who initially opened the
right lower quadrant to explore for appendicitis. In exploring the
abdomen , purulent material was found in the right lower quadrant ,
and the appendix was not able to be visualized. The decision was
made to open the midline incision which was done. Details of the
operation may be found in Dr. Civale 's operative report. By
report , she had gangrenous portions of the right colon ,
necessitating a right colectomy. This was performed , and she
tolerated the procedure well and was transferred extubated in
stable condition to the floor. Her immediate postoperative course
was complicated by supraventricular tachycardia to a rate of 200
with hypotension , requiring beta blockade and adenosine. She was
transferred to the Surgical ICU for further management. After the
use of beta blockade and adenosine , her arrhythmia resolved. This
was found to occur with magnesium of 1.5 which was repleted. Per
recommendations of the Cardiology Service , an echocardiogram was
obtained which was normal , and she ruled out for myocardial
infarction by serial CKs and electrocardiograms. An NG tube was in
place which was continued on the first postoperative day , and she
was kept on Zantac. She was kept on ampicillin , levofloxacin and
Flagyl. A central line was in place. Over the next few
postoperative days , as her NG tube was removed and her diet slowly
advanced with sips , she was converted to p.o. medication. At one
point she developed a second episode of supraventricular
tachycardia and was thought to be either atrial fibrillation versus
sinus tachycardia. This did not respond immediately to Lopressor
and per Cardiology's recommendations , she was changed to diltiazem
followed by Diltiazem drip. When stabilized , her dose of Lopressor
was increased , Diltiazem stopped and she was converted to p.o.
Lopressor 50 t.i.d. which kept her in sinus rhythm and a stable
rate. By the third and fourth postoperative day , she was
tolerating a regular diet , passing flatus and bowel movements and
ambulating independently. She was weaned off her oxygen and her
central line was discontinued. She was stable for discharge.
The patient was discharged to home on August , 2000. At that time
she will have completed a 5-day course of ampicillin , levofloxacin
and Flagyl. She is tolerating a regular diet , ambulating
dependently and requiring minimal amounts of oral analgesics. She
received wet to dry dressing changes b.i.d. to her wounds , which
will need to be continued as an outpatient by a visiting nurse.
DISCHARGE MEDICATION: Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Percocet 1-2
tabs p.o. q 3-4 hours p.r.n. pain , Colace 100
mg b.i.d. while on Percocet.
FOLLOWUP: The patient is instructed to followup with Dr. Civale
in 1-2 weeks and should call his office for an
appointment.
Dictated By: FRANCISCA A. URBANIAK , M.D. EZ60
Attending: LOVELLA CIVALE , M.D. HF71
SZ503/1605
Batch: 9126 Index No. CKPO8X5DZE D: 5/28
T: 5/28