761622641 | PUO | 80826409 | | 9069769 | 2/6/2006 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/20/2006 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: BRAUCKS , SHERRILL M.D.
INTERIM DICTATION THROUGH September , 2006
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Chest pain.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This patient is a 69-year-old woman
with diabetes , hypertension , congestive heart failure ,
rheumatologic overlap syndrome with rheumatoid
arthritis/dermatomyositis , who was admitted for chest wall pain.
Of note , two weeks prior to admission , the patient reports a fall
during which she hit her chest on the floor. Upon admission , the
reasons for the patient's chest pain were unclear. Her cardiac
enzymes were negative and her EKG was unchanged. Chest x-ray was
negative for infiltrate. However , soon after the patient was
admitted to the floor she had high fevers and grew out
methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus from her blood.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Dermatomyositis diagnosed in 2006.
2. Insulin-dependent diabetes complicated by neuropathy.
3. Hypertension.
4. History of Graves' disease status post radiotherapy.
5. Rheumatoid arthritis/rheumatologic overlap syndrome.
6. Status post SBO.
7. B12 deficiency.
8. Idiopathic cardiomyopathy ( ejection fraction 45% ).
ALLERGIES: Penicillin , aspirin , codeine , Zocor.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone in Hi Burb Sbrid , NV She
has a home VNA two times per week. She is a former smoker , but
denies IV drug use and ethanol use.
STUDIES:
1. Transthoracic echocardiogram performed on March , 2006
revealed a left ventricle normal in size. Estimated ejection
fraction was 55% ( previous echocardiograms had showed an ejection
fraction of 45% ). There were no regional wall motion
abnormalities. There was no significant pericardial effusion.
No vegetations were seen.
2. Transesophageal echocardiogram performed on May , 2006
revealed a normal left ventricular wall thickness with no
regional wall motion abnormalities , trace mitral regurgitation
was seen. There was no evidence of valvular vegetations or
abscesses.
3. A CT scan of the chest without contrast on August , 2006 showed
a slight soft tissue prominence at the costosternal joint , but no
abscess and no bone destruction was seen. There was no drainable
fluid collection or bone destruction seen on the scan. MRI on
May , 2006 revealed a linear low signal within the sternum
suspicious for a fracture with adjacent rim-enhancing collection
extending both anterior and posterior to the sternum , suspicious
for an abscess. Hematoma is also possible.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Cardiovascular: The patient had a negative rule out
myocardial infarction protocol. She was maintained on her
antihypertensive medications during her hospitalization and she
was hemodynamically well controlled. Because the patient had
MRSA bacteremia upon admission and because the patient had
elevated ESR and CRP , endocarditis was entertained as a possible
diagnosis. TTE and TEE , however , showed no vegetations on the
patient's valves. The patient's CRP on May , 2006 was 135 , the
patient's ESR on November , 2006 was 90.
2. Infectious disease: The patient had fevers upon admission to
greater than 101. Initial blood cultures revealed four of four
bottles to be MRSA bacteremia. Despite treatment with
vancomycin , the patient also had positive blood cultures on August , 2006. At the time of this dictation , the patient had negative
blood cultures from September , 2006 through March , 2006. She had a
bandemia to 6 on admission. It was not obvious initially what
the source was of the patient's MRSA bacteremia. Given her
elevated ESR and CRP , endocarditis was entertained as a
diagnosis. However , both TTE and TEE showed no evidence of
vegetations on the valves. The patient had a soft tissue
prominence on examination over her sternal manubrial joint on the
right side of her sternum. The original CT scan showed a soft
tissue prominence but no fluid collection. However , MRI on May , 2006 showed evidence of an abscess or hematoma in the right
subpectoral region. The patient had a CT-guided aspiration
performed on February , 2006 and 15 mL of pus was removed. The
drain was left in place. Studies from this fluid were pending at
the time of this dictation. However , the Thoracic Surgery
Service was consulted for possible debridement of the wound.
Infectious disease service was also consulted concerning the
timing for the placement of the PICC line , as well as the
duration of the patient's vancomycin.
3. Musculoskeletal: Chest x-ray showed evidence of an old left
shoulder fracture.
4. Rheumatology: The patient was maintained on prednisone for
dermatomyositis.
5. Endocrine: The patient was maintained on her home dose of
NPH. On this dose , the patient's blood sugars were well
controlled. The patient's TSH was measured A6 at 5.129 with a T4
of 7.2 and a THBR of 1.27. The patient's dose of Synthroid was
not altered.
6. Hematology: The patient was anemic on admission with
hematocrits ranging from 24-29. B12 level on November , 2006 was
199. She was given supplementation , both orally and IM , and on
November , 2006 her B12 level was 842. She was also found to have
both iron deficiency anemia and anemia of chronic disease. Iron
studies from September , 2006 revealed an iron less than assay , a TIBC
of 202 , and ferritin 182. The patient was started on oral iron
supplementation during her hospitalization.
7. Skin: The patient was noted to have excoriations and open
lesions on her legs , which were likely due to itching. The
patient was given Bactroban. All of these excoriations were
clean , dry and intact. There was no evidence of infection.
9. Neurologic: The patient was maintained on amitriptyline and
Neurontin during her hospital stay.
10. Renal: On November , 2006 , the patient had a creatinine to
1.7. It is the feeling of the team that this is due to
gentamicin toxicity. At one point during the patient's
hospitalization , gentamicin had been added for synergistic effect
with vancomycin. Gentamicin had been added as the patient was
continuing to spike fevers despite vancomycin treatment. When
the patient's creatinine began to rise , gentamicin was
discontinued. Creatinine will likely resolve with time without
gentamicin administration in the future.
A component of the arf was due to repeated gadolidium exposure from repeat
mri of sternum and a hemodynamic with worsening when acei reinitiated.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: March , 2006: In general , the patient is
fatigued and somnolent. At multiple times during the patient's
hospitalization , she became difficult to arouse. Upon touching
her sternum , however , the patient opened her eyes and was alert
and oriented. This seems to be her baseline behavior. There was
no lymphadenopathy. Cardiovascular exam revealed regular rate
and rhythm , normal S1 , S2. No murmurs , rubs or gallops. The
patient had bilateral anterior chest wall pain to mild palpation
at the T3 level. Overlying the skin there was no erythema or
warmth. However , there was a fluctuant mass underneath the skin
surface. The patient's lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally , but she had shallow respirations due to pain on deep
breaths. Her abdominal exam was soft and nontender. Examination
of her extremities revealed multiple excoriations that were
clean , dry , and intact. Although the patient was somnolent at
times and difficult to arouse , she was alert and oriented x3 and
her neurologic exam was nonfocal. It appears that the patient's
excessive tiredness and excessive sleeping is her baseline
behavior. When the patient needed to be awake and oriented to
perform certain tasks , such as getting an MRI , she was able to do
so. Moreover , when she was witnessed interacting with her son ,
she was more alert.
CODE STATUS: Full code.
CONSULTS:
1. Infectious disease ( Gaylene Faniel , Infectious Disease fellow ).
2. Thoracic surgery.
Dr. Stepanie Tijuana Loban will dictate the remainder of the patient's
hospital course , including his disposition and discharge
medications.
eScription document: 5-3776900 PSSten Tel
Dictated By: WARRELL , KRYSTIN
Attending: WERNER REGINIA CASEBIER , M.D. YQ0
Dictation ID 4963536
D: 11/8/06
T: 11/8/06