921778812 | PUO | 49448215 | | 099790 | 3/6/1998 12:00:00 AM | DIVERTICULAR ABSCESS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/6/1998 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 4/14/1998
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 76 year old female
with history of an inferior myocardial
infarction , coronary artery disease , and diverticulosis initially
admitted on 11/6/98 for conservative treatment of acute
diverticulitis. She was discharged on 10/30/98. The patient now
presents for elective sigmoid colectomy. The patient had had no
recent angina since her prior admission in January of 1998. According
to the patient she has rare , about one time every two weeks ,
episode of stable angina which presents as left arm pain relieved
by sublingual nitroglycerin. The patient did not present with any
pattern of unstable angina. The patient denies recent fevers ,
chills , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , bright red blood per rectum ,
melena , cough , or pneumonia. The patient does report dyspnea on
exertion after climbing approximately one flight of stairs. The
patient has orthopnea as she sleeps with two pillows.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Status post myocardial infarction times two.
History of atrial fibrillation. History of
atrial flutter. Status post cardioversion times three in 1994.
History of hypertension. History of rheumatic heart disease.
History of congestive heart failure. Non-insulin dependent
diabetes mellitus. History of two deep venous thromboses in 1970s.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Mitral valve commissurotomy. Mitral valve
repair with St. Jude's valve in 1981.
Appendectomy. Left hip fracture.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin , sulfa , aspirin , Sotalol , as well as
Procainamide and Quinaglute.
MEDICATIONS: Lasix 80 mg , Lopressor 180 mg t.i.d. , Glyburide 10 mg
b.i.d. , Lisinopril 10 mg q.d. , Plaquenil 200 mg
b.i.d. , Isordil tempids 40 mg t.i.d. , and Coumadin 5 mg q.d.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Well developed , well nourished female in no
acute distress. Lungs clear to auscultation
without crackles. Heart: Mechanical S1 and normal S2. Abdomen:
Soft , nontender , nondistended. Bowel sounds positive. 2+ edema to
calves bilaterally. Feet were warm and dry with normal capillary
refill.
LABORATORY DATA: ECG was significant for normal rate , atrial
fibrillation rhythm. No acute ST-T wave changes.
The patient had Q-waves in leads 3 and aVF. The patient's x-ray
was consistent with pulmonary edema.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The cardiology service was consulted with the
recommendations that the patient be diuresed
aggressively , daily weights and ins-and-outs be followed , and fluid
and sodium restriction to patient. The patient was placed on
heparin preoperatively.
On hospital day #2 preoperatively , the patient was admitted to the
Surgical Intensive Care Unit after she experienced a hypotensive
event with systolic blood pressure in the 50s with associated
drowsiness while maintaining her own airway. The feeling was that
the patient's event was likely secondary to the initiation of
Verapamil for rate control of her atrial fibrillation. The rate
control was then continued with Lopressor and Verapamil was held.
Goal potassium greater than 3.5 and magnesium greater than 2 were
maintained. The patient's diuresis was continued. The patient was
felt to be stable for surgery.
On hospital day #3 , 3/29/98 , the patient was brought to the
operating room for sigmoid colectomy with primary anastomosis , as
well as drainage of abscess. Postoperatively , the patient was
transferred back to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit for further
monitoring of her cardiopulmonary issues. Postoperatively , the
patient progressed well. She was maintained on perioperative
Vancomycin , Levofloxacin , and Flagyl. Cardiovascularly , she was
maintained on Lopressor , Nitropaste , Hydralazine , and Digoxin for
her atrial flutter. The patient did well on the floor , tolerating
IV to p.o. pain control , reinstitution of Coumadin for
anticoagulation , tolerating regular activity. Of note ,
the patient completed a rule out for myocardial infarction by
serial enzymes and ECGs. The patient was seen by the physical
therapy service and noted to have progressively improving activity.
The patient was discharged in stable condition.
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to the Sa Pehall ,
a rehabilitation hospital. DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Plaquenil 200 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , Isordil tempids 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lisinopril 10 mg
p.o. q.d. , Lopressor 150 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Percocet 1 to 2 tablets
p.o. q4 - 6h p.r.n. pain , Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. times six
days- starting on 6/11/98 , Coumadin 10 mg p.o. qhs for evenings of
8/21/98 and 3/27/98 ; 5 mg p.o. q.d. starting on 5/6/98. The
patient should have PT and PTT with INR checked three times a week
on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday. She has a goal INR of 3.0. The
patient is not being discharged on Glyburide 10 mg b.i.d. because
she has had consistently low blood sugars. Fingerstick blood
glucose should be checked b.i.d. with resumption of Glyburide when
necessary. FOLLOWUP: The patient will follow-up with Dr. Marilyn Frehse in the Nessinee Ker Hospital Medical Center surgical clinic in one to two weeks. She
should call to schedule an appointment. The patient should also
call to schedule an appointment to follow-up with her primary care
physician , Dr. Annette Schoultz , in one week.
Dictated By: PAOLA NOFTSIER , M.D. OC69
Attending: MARILYN V. FREHSE , M.D. RL29
KO543/2892
Batch: 9757 Index No. CQCATJ6SOR D: 8/21/98
T: 8/21/98
CC: 1. ANNETTE SCHOULTZ , M.D. JW7