805574265 | PUO | 97875387 | | 0751748 | 4/6/2006 12:00:00 AM | C-DIFF.COLITIS | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 5/15/2006 Report Status: Unsigned
Discharge Date: 7/30/2006
ATTENDING: GUMINA , MARJORY SHELA MD
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Loque is an 81-year-old gentleman
whose chief complaint was abdominal pain and diarrhea. He had a
past medical history of ischemic cardiomyopathy and recent
complex medical history including a septic right knee arthritis
with MRSA complicated by a PICC line-induced right upper extremity
DVT followed by bacteremia with multi-resistant Klebsiella
pneumoniae , treated with meropenem for 14 days with the course
ending on 11/11/2006. The patient presented with left lower quadrant abdominal
pain during his last admission 2 weeks ago associated with low-volume mucus
diarrhea , C. diff toxin assay was at that time negative on 1/24
Abdominal CT showed diverticulosis with stranding of the sigmoid colon.
Blood cultures grew klebsiella , treated with 14 days of meropenem
as previously noted. However , since this discharge , the mild
abdominal pain persisted. He continues to have low-grade mucus
diarrhea about 5 times a day , not associated with fever , chills
or anorexia. Over the last 2 days prior to this admission , the
diarrhea became high volume , still nonbloody and not associated
again with fever or chills. He was brought into the emergency
department at which time , he was afebrile with a blood pressure
of 85/49 , heart rate in the 80s , respiratory rate of 20 , O2
saturation 93% on room air. At that time , he received volume
resuscitation with 2 liters of IV fluids , stool samples for C.
diff assay were sent. He received empiric therapy with p.o.
vancomycin. An abdominal CT in the emergency department showed
thickening of the sigmoid colon and rectum.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Includes coronary artery disease as noted
with an anterior MI in 2003 , that had complicated to VT arrest ,
status post CABG in 2003 that was a left internal mammary artery
to LAD with saphenous vein graft to the PTA and obtuse marginal.
He has had a catheterization in 3/12 that showed patent grafts
and drug-eluting stent to the left circumflex. He has chronic
kidney disease , baseline creatinine between 1.3 and 1.5 ,
hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , C. diff colitis in 2003 , BPH ,
asthma , GERD , status post right upper extremity PICC-related DVT
and right knee septic arthritis.
MEDICATIONS: aspirin 81 mg , Plavix 75 mg , Coumadin 5 mg , digoxin 0.125 mg ,
Lasix 49 mg daily , lisinopril 10 mg daily , Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , Zocor 80 mg
daily , Flomax 0.4 mg daily and Flovent 110 mcg b.i.d.
ALLERGIES: penicillin which caused hives and swelling.
SOCIAL HISTORY: He previously a smoker. He does not drink. He
is a nursing home resident.
FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for coronary artery disease , two
brothers who had coronary artery disease in their 60s. No family
history of cancer.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vitals as previous noted , blood pressure
in the 80s/49 , heart rate 80 , regular , respiratory rate 20 , O2
saturation 93% on room air. Patient was afebrile. Pertinent
physical findings included: Pulmonary: He had a prolonged
expiratory phase , but no crackles. Cardiovascular: Distant heart
sounds , regular rate and rhythm. Normal S1 and S2. No rubs or
gallops. Systolic ejection or murmur 3/6 at the left lower
sternal border. Abdomen: Obese , distended abdomen , left lower
quadrant tenderness to palpation. No rebound at this time.
Extremities are warm , 2+ pulses with 1+ bilateral lower extremity
edema to the shins. Neurologic: Alert and oriented x3 , cranial
nerves grossly intact , no abnormalities.
admission abdominal CT showed bowel wall thickening in
the descending sigmoid colon and rectum. Chest x-ray showed
left-sided pleural effusion , atelectasis in the left lower lobe.
LABORATORY DATA: Labs were significant for a white count of
15.7 , hematocrit of 35.5 and INR of 3.2. Electrolytes were
normal.
Patient was initially admitted to the MICU for hypertension and
infectious etiology. He was stabilized there and transferred to
the floor within a few days.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Colitis , presumed infectious etiology , descending and sigmoid
colon. Colitis was worse over the last month , associated with
diarrhea. Abdominal CT is consistent with an infectious
inflammatory bowel process. Given history of C. diff colitis , C.
diff was the most likely infectious etiology , but others were
possible. Ischemic colitis was considered secondary to low
forward flow , given patient's cardiomyopathy and low ejection
fraction of 20% to 35% and he also got a pattern of inflammatory
colitis or nonspecific colitis. Stool samples were sent for a C.
diff toxin and assay and all were negative x at least 3 samples.
Stool cultures were sent and did not grow anything out during
admission. Empiric treatment was started with p.o. vancomycin.
Patient's abdominal pain continued to improve and completely
resolved. By discharge , patient remained afebrile and white
blood cell count decreased. Advance patient's diet as tolerated
and by discharge the patient was up to soft solids. We added
lactobacillus p.o. for probiotics and patient also had flex sig
two days before discharge , showing resolving inflammation
consistent with colitis of inflammatory etiology. The flex sig
did not change his management. We did discharge the patient on a
2-week course p.o. vancomycin alone.
2. Coronary artery disease. Patient had no evidence for acute
coronary syndrome on admission. We continued his aspirin ,
Plavix , statin and beta-blocker. Patient had no ischemic issues
or coronary artery disease issues during his admission.
3. CHF. Patient has previous EF noted at 20% to 35% , so a
gentle hydration therapy at first in the MICU for hypertension
and then as patient's blood pressure increased , was able to
restart patient's Lasix dose in order to diurese all of the extra
fluid gained during the rehydration therapy , was restarted on the
Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily , his daily dose at home. Also considered
restarting lisinopril , but deferred discharge to outpatient
follow up with primary care physician for restart of lisinopril ,
once patient is fully recovered.
4. Chronic kidney disease. Patient had a baseline of creatinine
1.2 to 1.5 and he came into the hospital with a creatinine of 1.0.
The patient was below baseline and remained below baseline during
admission. He did not have any renal issues.
5. Hematology. Patient has a history a line-induced DVT , has
been treated with Coumadin , with no definitive evidence as to how
along patient should be treated , given that the DVT was line
induced. Coumadin was therapeutic on admission , became
supertherapeutic in the MICU. Held Coumadin until INR fell below
3 , restarted Coumadin afterwards at 6 mg p.o. daily , patient's
normal dose. Patient was therapeutic on discharge. Will follow
up with primary care physician for Coumadin monitoring.
6. Nutrition. Patient was in the MICU and was n.p.o. given
abdominal pain and colitis. When transferred to floor , was
started on liquid diet and advanced to soft solid diet. By
discharge , the patient did not have abdominal pain and most of
the diarrhea had resolved.
PROCEDURES PERFORMED: The patient had a flexible sigmoidoscopy
during the admission that showed colitis consistent with
inflammatory etiology.
DIAGNOSIS: Patient had repeated negative C. diff toxin assays ,
but colitis was presumed to be C. diff and given history , could
have been other infectious or inflammatory etiologies. Patient
continued to improve on vancomycin and thus was discharged with
presumed C. diff colitis diagnosis.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Included aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , Plavix
75 mg p.o. daily , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily , Nexium 20 mg p.o.
daily , Flovent 110 mcg inhale b.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily ,
lactobacillus 2 tabs p.o. t.i.d. , metoprolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
simvastatin 80 mg p.o. at bed time , Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. every
evening , vancomycin 250 mg p.o. every 6 hours x8 days at
discharge and Coumadin 5 mg p.o. every evening.
Patient had to follow up with primary care physician , setup for 2
to 3 weeks after discharge.
eScription document: 2-7190495 HFFocus
Dictated By: BALDAUF , WILLOW
Attending: GUMINA , MARJORY SHELA
Dictation ID 6257188
D: 10/27/06
T: 4/24/06