181574305 | PUO | 44577177 | | 903279 | 6/18/2002 12:00:00 AM | NON Q WAVE MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/7/2002 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 5/4/2002
DIAGNOSIS: THE PATIENT IS STATUS POST NON ST ELEVATION MI MEDICAL
MANAGEMENT.
PROCEDURES: Echocardiogram.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Syncope.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 75 year old woman with
history of hypertension ,
hyperlipidemia and past tobacco use and a history of angina but no
previously known CAD who is now presenting with syncope at
baseline. She had a history of angina with substernal sharp pain
only with exertion and no radiation or associated symptoms and with
a frequency approximately once every several months. She had no
baseline shortness of breath with one flight of stairs and walking
around the house nor orthopnea , no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or
leg edema. She had "a couple of falls/syncope over the last year".
Most recently , about three months ago , without symptoms , the
patient did not seek medical attention. The night prior to
admission , at approximately 11:30 p.m. the patient was hanging
laundry and had a sudden episode of syncope with likely loss of
consciousness of unclear duration but likely for minutes. The
patient denied any prodromal symptoms of chest pain , shortness of
breath , palpitations , light-headnessness , visual changes , balance ,
bowel or bladder incontinence , tonoclonic movements. She
subsequently felt weak and was unable to get up until on the
afternoon admission where she was found by her apartment manager.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Unremarkable. She denied URI symptoms , UTI
symptoms , bright red blood per rectum , melena ,
normal appetite , stable weight , arthralgias , except for mild knee
pain after the fall. She did note right sided arm and leg weakness
for about a year that invoked a question of CVA.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension , hypothymia , past tobacco use ,
question of an old CVA , COPD not O2
dependent , status post appendectomy.
MEDICATIONS: The patient is on aspirin , lisinopril , atenolol.
ALLERGIES: The patient had no known medical allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone in Okemadorbshore Oer Laughnetill Lane , Sterl Ma ,  98713 She has two
daughters who live in Wa I Stam A The
granddaughter lives in Troitry Ri Ville Her son is in North Carolina She
is a smoker with one cigarette every few days for about 45 years.
The patient does not use ethanol.
FAMILY HISTORY: The patient's father died of a myocardial
infarction at 79 and mother died at 27 during
pregnancy.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: In the Emergency Department the patient had
a temperature of 97.3 , heart rate of 108 ,
blood pressure of 152/102 satting 96% on room air. Her examination
is notable for poor hygiene , incontinence of urine , stool and a
tachycardia wheeze , poor strength throughout. On the floor her
physical examination showed a heart rate in the 90s , systolic blood
pressure of 110. She is satting 96% on four liters. In general
she was comfortable but in mild respiratory distress with a wheeze.
She was using her respiratory muscles. HEENT , extraocular muscles
are intact , PERRL. Cranial nerves II through XII are intact. Neck
- she had no adenopathy , thyromegaly or GP6. Cardiovascular -
regular rate and rhythm , normal S1 , S2 , no murmurs , rubs or
gallops , distant heart sounds. Respirations - she had some
wheezes , no crackles. She had increased respiratory phase.
Abdomen - she was obese , non-tender and non-distended with left
groin erythematous and scaling with a question of fungal infection.
Extremities - no edema. She had 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses. Neuro
examination - she was alert. She knew she was at the Pagham University Of .  She said it was 1982 , September , Thursday. Cranial
nerves II through XII are intact as previously noted. She had 4/5
bilateral lower extremity strength. She had 1+ deep tendon
reflexes with toes down going. She had normal sensation.
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 134 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 101 , CO2 26 ,
BUN 14 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose 139. She had an
anion gap of 12. White count was 15.7 with 71% polys , 14% bands ,
8% lymphs , 2% monos. Her hematocrit was 47.0 , her platelets were
366 , Troponin was 3.99 , CK 1161 , MB 31.2. Her albumin was 4.1 ,
total bilirubin 0.4 , alkaline phosphatase 66 , ALT 13 , AST 51. Her
lipids - her LDLs 149 , total cholesterol 232 , HDL 49 , coags - her
PTT is 30.1 , INR 1.0. Her head CT showed no evidence of bleed.
She had an old lacunar in the thalamus. She had an old infarct in
her PTM internal capsule. He EKG showed sinus tachycardia at 102
normal axis , normal intervals , diffuse T wave inversions in 1 , 2 , 3
AVF , V2 to V6. Her chest x-ray showed no active process.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was found to have non ST elevation
MRI and there was possible cause of her syncope
and was treated conservatively with medical management.
Cardiovascular - ischemia , ST elevation , myocardial infarction.
The patient was treated with aspirin , heparin , Lopressor ,
captopril , cozaar initially with heart rate and blood pressure
controlled. An echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 30%
with apical anterolateral wall motion abnormality and heparin was
discontinued. The patient had no further chest pain.
Pulmonary - the patient has had some wheezing on examination
secondary to COPD and the patient was started on Atrovent nebs and
subsequently had no further wheezing.
I.D. - the patient initially had an increased white count with
bandemia of an unclear cause. Her workup was negative. Her UA
and chest x-ray were negative. She had no fevers. Her white blood
cell count ultimately declined to normal.
Renal - the patient was most likely dehydrated initially and was
given fluids until she had good urine output. Her IV fluids
ultimately discontinued. Renal ultrasound was negative for
hydronephrosis or obstruction.
Neuro - Although the patient's CT was negative for acute stroke and
positive for possible infarct the patient declined MRI of the brain
to workup for a possible TIA.
PLAN FOLLOWING DISCHARGE: The patient is somewhat debilitated
following her hospitalization , requires
physical therapy to regain her ability to perform activities of
daily living. Additionally the patient should follow with
Gynecology , is scheduled for a workup for her incontinence which
may also include an issue of uterine prolapse.
Dictated By: GAYLORD STECK , M.D. EB56
Attending: RUFUS C. BERNAS , M.D. BA95  DA906/417048
Batch: 4874 Index No. K4LDYRREY6 D: 6/17/02
T: 10/4/02