057116763 | PUO | 81414902 | | 199811 | 7/29/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/8/1996 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 2/30/1996
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: LEFT PLEURAL EFFUSION , MOST LIKELY POST-
PERICARDIOTOMY SYNDROME
OTHER DIAGNOSIS: ( 1 ) ADRENAL INSUFFICIENCY , EMPIRICAL DIAGNOSIS
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Dalegowski is a 52-year-old woman
status post mitral valve repair and
CABG in 6/28 , as well as dilated cardiomyopathy , who presented in
5/24/95 with worsening shortness of breath and left pleural
effusion , and for further evaluation and treatment of these
symptoms.
HISTORY: Patient has a long history of mitral valve prolapse. In
6/28 , she presented to Petersram Medical Center with history of
progressive dyspnea and congestive heart failure noted at an
outside hospital. Ejection fraction at that time on echo was 18% ,
with severe MR and TR. She was admitted and an echo done at the
Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of showed moderate left ventricular dilatation with an EF of
25-30% , with only mild regional variability. There was also right
ventricular dilatation with mild decrease in function. Mitral
valve was thickened with severe MI. CAT at that time showed 71%
left-sided lesion. The patient underwent , in 6/28 , mitral valve
repair and one-vessel CABG lemma to the LAD. She had an uneventful
post-op course. Her post-op echo on 6/12/95 revealed LV
dilatation with clear EF of 23% and good IV function. Moderate
residual mitral regurgitation and moderate TR. Post-op weight of
the patient was 177 lb.
Post-operatively , the patient did well initially , when she had PND
and orthopnea that was marked prior to surgery , she is able to walk
now , and when she was only able to walk only 40 ft. before
stopping. She now sleeps flat on her bed with improved exercise
tolerance. She experiences near total resolution of the PND and
orthopnea initially. However , in the period between 6/28 to
7/30 , the above symptoms recurred with progressive shortness of
breath , dyspnea on exertion , cough and positional chest pains. On
3/13/95 , the patient saw her physician and was noted to have a
large left pleural effusion at an outside hospital. A left
thoracentesis was done. Patient noted 1 liter of bloody fluid that
was tapped from her thoracentesis. Post-procedural weight was 169
lb. She was able to breath more easily.
Status post the left thoracentesis , the patient initially felt
well. However , within the next few days , she continued to develop
worsening shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion , as well as
PND and orthopnea. She , therefore , represents on 1/2/96 for
recurrence of her symptoms and recurrence of left pleural effusion.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: ( 1 ) MITRAL VALVE PROLAPSE , MITRAL REPAIR
STATUS POST 1/10 ( 2 ) CABG X1 , EILEMMA TO
THE LAD IN 1/10 ( 3 ) HYPERTENSION; ( 4 ) ASTHMA; ( 5 ) HYPOTHYROIDISM;
( 6 ) HISTORY OF STROKE X3 , LAST STROKE IN 1987; ( 7 ) HISTORY OF TIAs;
( 8 ) HYPOCHOLESTEROLEMIA; ( 9 ) HISTORY OF SEIZURE DISORDER STATUS
POST MVA; ( 10 ) CHRONIC DVTS; ( 11 ) TAH/BSO; ( 12 ) HEPATITIS HISTORY;
( 13 ) CYSTOCELE REPAIR.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Digoxin .25 qd; Vasotec 10 mg qd; Lasix
40 mg qd; Flexeril clear dose b.i.d.;
Coumadin 7.5 mg alternating with 10 mg q.h.s.; Synthroid 15 mcg qd;
Benadryl 50 mg p.r.n.; Prozac 10 mg b.i.d.; Mevacor 20 mg qd.
SOCIAL HISTORY: No tobacco use. Alcohol use none for 10 years.
No drugs. Unemployed since surgery. Married with
two children.
ALLERGIES: Iodine and Atropine which cause shortness of breath.
Codeine which causes a rash. Atrovent unclear side
effects.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL - patient is afebrile. EXTREMITIES-
left upper extremities and right upper
extremities blood pressures were equal 140/100 , pulse 65 , breathing
at 97% on room air. HEENT - unremarkable. NECK - supple with 2+
carotids and no bruits. JVD less than 8.0 cm at 45 degrees. No
HJR. HEART - showed right ventricular and left ventricular
heaves. No thrills. Regular rate and rhythm. S1 and S2 were
normal. Right-sided systolic murmur increased with inspiration.
Rubs were appreciated when she laid on her left side. LUNGS -
showed decreased breath sounds. Decreased tactile ****** and
dullness to percussion 2/3 up from the base on the left. No rales.
ABDOMEN - soft. Good bowel sounds. No HSM. EXTREMITIES - 3+
edema bilaterally. Otherwise , pulses intact. NEURO - alert and
oriented x3. No focal or neurological deficits in motor or sensory
exam.
LABORATORY DATA: Na 138 , K 4.0 , Cl 97 , Bicarb 24 , BUN 12 ,
creatinine 0.8 , glucose 100. WBC 8.9 , 64% polys ,
22% lymphs , 5 monos , 4 eosin. , 1 baso. Hematocrit 34.3 , platelets
415. LDH 233 , total protein. Digoxin level 1.1. PT and PTT 14.9
and 25.4 with an I&amp;O of 1.5.
U/A was negative.
Chest x-ray showed a large pleural effusion on the left. No
pulmonary edema , and no infiltrations.
EKG - sinus tachy at 108 , with frequent PVCs and bigeminy.
Intervals were normal. Axis of 21 degrees. Left atrial
enlargement. No acute ischemic changes.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Ms. Dalegowski was initially admitted with a
diagnosis of left pleural effusion of unclear
etiology. A left thoracentesis was performed and the fluid was
deemed exudative. It was bloody in appearance and had a white
count greater than 4 , 000 , with a red cell count greater than
500 , 000. Patient met criteria for exudative fluid by
fluid-serum-LDH ratios , fluid-serum-protein ratio and LDH greater
than 200. Subsequent cultures , however , were negative for a
bacterial fungal AFB. Rheumatology etiologies were also R/O with
negative ANA and negative rheumatoid factor. Cytology was sent on
the patient , which also returned negative for malignant cells. A
total of 1.5 liters was drained from the thoracentesis. Subsequent
to the thoracentesis , the patient felt significantly better , with
better exercise tolerance and less orthopnea. She remains with RAO
to sats greater than 95% for the remainder of her hospitalization
and did not require oxygen. A repeat chest x-ray was done prior to
discharge , and compared to post-thoracentesis , showed no
significant accumulation of the left pleural effusion.
Initially it was felt that the patient's symptoms might have some
relationship to some element of congestive heart failure. She was
started on Digoxin and Captopril and maxed at Digoxin .25 q day and
Captopril 50 mg t.i.d. During this hospitalization , however , the
patient noted in passing , that she had , since her 6/28 surgery ,
developed significant dizziness and orthostatic symptoms upon
sitting up and rising , and had limited exercise tolerance partly
because of shortness of breath , but also partly because of her
dizziness symptoms. She noted occasional vertigo and occasional
diplopia. A work-up subsequently ensued related to the symptoms.
Neurology was consulted and carotid Dopplers , as well as MRA of the
head to R/O vertebral basal insufficiency were performed. Both
carotid Dopplers revealed less than 25 stenosis bilaterally and MRA
of the head revealed no vertebral basal insufficiency. However , it
was noted on repeated measurements of the patient's blood
pressures , that when she sat up and when she stood up , she became
hypotensive. A modified Bruce protocol stress test was performed
to determine the patient's exercise tolerance. Prior to initiation
of the modified Bruce , supine blood pressure was 120/80. Upon
sitting up , the patient's blood pressure was 92 and upon beginning
the modified Bruce within less than one minute , the patient's blood
pressure dipped to 60 systolic , and test was terminated. An
echocardiogram during this admission revealed an ejection fraction
of 30% , moderate LV dilatation , severe global hyperkinesis ,
preserved right ventricular function and size , and only trivial MR
and TR. No significant arrhythmias were noted on the patient's
cardiac monitor throughout her hospitalization , except for one
episode of transient third degree heart block with a ventricular
rhythm. The patient did not demonstrate this rhythm consistently ,
however , during her hypertensive episodes.
On review of the patient's past medical history , however , it was
found that the patient had been on chronic steroids for two years
prior to her 6/28 CABG and prior to the onset of these symptoms of
orthostasis and dizziness. Patient notes that she was more on than
off on p.o. steroids for treatment of her shortness of breath at an
outside hospital in Wau Pring An At that time , they had deemed that her
shortness of breath symptoms were secondary to pulmonary etiologies
rather than cardiac. We , therefore , suspected adrenal
insufficiency and consulted endocrine. ACTH stem test was
performed and Cortisol , Adolsterone and ACTH levels were drawn at
0:30 and 60 minutes post-administration of ACTH. The patient
developed hives and angioedema with the ACTH which was relieved
with Benadryl IV. After the performance of the ACTH stem test
empirically started on Hydrocortisone 80 mg IV. The next day the
patient's symptoms resolved and she no longer had any evidence of
orthostatic hypertension or dizziness symptoms related to standing
or walking. Repeated blood pressure measurements for orthostatic
were unyielding. The patient noted her symptoms are completely
resolved and that she felt like a different person. It was ,
therefore , felt that the empiric trial of hydrocortisone was
significant and that the patient most likely had adrenal
insufficiency secondary to chronic steroid for the two years prior
to the 6/28 CABG , and this was consistent with the time closer to
patient's symptoms , which began after the 6/28 CABG when she was
off steroids.
The patient was therefore discharged in stable condition with
diagnosis of a left pleural effusion secondary to most likely a
post-pericardiotomy syndrome , as well as orthostatic hypertension
and dizziness symptoms secondary to adrenal insufficiency. At the
time of discharge , the patient's ACTH stem test was still pending ,
as well as the TSH. It was felt at the time of discharge , the
patient should not be managed on Captopril or Digoxin. It remained
unclear whether or not the patient's current ejection fraction was
adequate for her symptoms.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Flexeril 10 mg p.o. b.i.d; Benadryl 50 mg
p.o. b.i.d; Prednisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d;
Prozac 20 mg p.o. qd; Synthroid 50 mcg p.o. qd; Mevacor 20 mg p.o.
qd; Quinaam 325 mg p.o. q.h.s.
DISPOSITION: Patient was discharged home to Ton There
were no complications during this admission. Patient
was discharged in a stable condition , with no estimated disability.
The patient is to follow-up with Dr. Alexandra Popovic in 12/10 .
Dictated By: HERMINA TUOMALA , M.D. QD75
Attending: ALEXANDRA T. POPOVIC , M.D. AG4  BZ475/6971
Batch: 88593 Index No. XXMDW3293X D: 7/22/96
T: 7/22/96