362241745 | PUO | 66750039 | | 209406 | 1/30/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/20/1991 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 2/12/1991
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: CHIEF COMPLAINT was a 57 year old man
who was status post percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty times 2 , of a left anterior
descending stenosis for unstable angina , and was admitted for new
onset of angina at rest. The patient's cardiac risk factors
included family history , borderline high cholesterol. The patient
had no prior cardiac history , until 12 of June , when he had substernal
chest pain with exertion. He eventually had cardiac
catheterization which showed an 80% proximal left anterior
descending lesion with thrombosis , good left ventricular function.
The patient had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty to
this lesion. He was without symptoms for about 4 weeks , and then
in 23 of August , the patient noted new onset chest pain and left arm
numbness at rest. An electrocardiogram at that time showed sinus
bradycardia at 50 , T-wave inversions in II with flat T-waves in
III , and was otherwise unremarkable. He had an exercise tolerance
test at the time and went on a 9-minute standard Bruce protocol and
stopped secondary to fatigue. The electrocardiogram showed 3 to 4
millimeter ST depressions in the lateral leads , which was highly
predictive of coronary artery disease. At that time , he was repeat
cardiac catheterization which showed a restenosis of his left
anterior descending lesion. He had a repeat percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty of the lesion without
complications. The patient did well for several weeks and was
pain-free. However , 6 days prior to admission , the patient began
to note occasional episodes of left arm numbness , which was always
relieved with sublingual nitroglycerin. There was no accompanying
dizziness , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis. The patient at first had
2 or 3 episodes a day , now increased to 7 or 8 times a day at the
time of admission. On the day of adimssion , the patient had almost
constant chest pain and arm pain which lasted almost all day , only
partially relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin. The patient was
very concerned about the pain , and now comes to Pagham University Of for further evaluation. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY included
arthritis , kidney stones , chronic lower back pain. MEDICATIONS ON
ADMISSION were Lopressor 25 milligrams by mouth twice a day ,
aspirin 325 milligrams by mouth per day , Isordil 10 milligrams by
mouth 3 times a day. ALLERGIES included no known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY revealed the patient was a retired firefighter ,
occasional red wine , no tobacco use. His brother had 3 myocardial
infarctions in the past , no other FAMILY HISTORY.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was afebrile , pulse 54 , blood
pressure 104/70 , respirations 20. There was
no jugular venous distention. Chest was clear. Cardiac
examination showed regular rate and rhythm , normal S1 , S2 , no
peripheral edema. Extremities had good pulses bilaterally in
dorsalis pedis , posterior tibial and femoral.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Admitting laboratory values were
remarkable for potassium 4.3 , creatinine
1.0 , hematocrit 40.8. The electrocardiogram showed sinus
bradycardia at 50 , normal intervals , flat T-waves in AVF , V2 and
V3 , QRS axis 0 degrees. Chest x-ray showed no infiltrates or
effusions , no evidence of congestive heart failure.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted on a rule out myocardial
infarction protocol. He had no elevations in his
serum creatinine kinase levels. The patient continued to have
intermittent left arm numbness during his hospital stay. For this
reason , he was taken back for cardiac catheterization , which showed
a 75% proximal left anterior descending lesion believed to be at
the same site as his previous percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty procedures. The patient had successful percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty of the lesion with a 25% residual
stenosis. The patient postoperatively had no further episodes of
chest pain or arm numbness. He had no complications related to the
cardiac catheterization itself. The patient was then discharged.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home. MEDICATIONS ON
DISCHARGE will be Lopressor 25 milligrams by mouth
twice a day , Ecotrin 1 tablet by mouth per day , diltiazem 60
milligrams by mouth twice a day. The patient was to FOLLOW-UP with
his cardiologist in 1 week.
VH327/5150
KATHERYN SATURNINA GRUNTZ , M.D. WA5 D: 9/5/91
Batch: 5066 Report: H4292Q0 T: 3/9/91
Dictated By: NAOMI K. WOLFENSPERGER , M.D.