152307321 | PUO | 82935889 | | 1775965 | 8/8/2005 12:00:00 AM | PNEUMONIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/10/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 3/28/2005
ATTENDING: WARRAN , MARCOS MD
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN:
Brendan Danyelle Wurth , M.D.
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Pneumonia.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:
1. COPD.
2. Arrhythmia.
3. AVNRT/SVT.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
On admission was shortness of breath and fever.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 73-year-old male with COPD , hypertension , chronic renal
insufficiency , CHF , with ejection fraction of 60% , pulmonary
hypertension , and arrhythmias who was discharged on 5/10/05 but
returned later in the evening complaining of worsening shortness
of breath and fevers at home. On prior hospitalization , the
patient had presented on 10/10/05 with acute shortness of breath
and hypertension with chest pain and was ruled out for MI and PE.
In addition , he was treated for minor COPD exacerbation with
steroids and nebulizer but not antibiotics and was discharged on
5/10/05 at baseline home O2 of 2 liters and was afebrile. At
presentation on 9/30/05 , the patient noted worsening shortness
of breath with increasing oxygen needs and in the ED was found to
have a temperature of 102.4. On chest x-ray , the patient was
found to have left lower lobe pneumonia that had not been noted
on chest x-ray from 10/10/05 and on the PECT on 4/19/05 .  The
patient was admitted on 9/30/05 for pneumonia and increasing
oxygen requirements.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Past medical history is notable for a. fib with SVT not on
Coumadin , hypertension , COPD with home oxygen at 2 liters ,
hyperlipidemia , gout , coronary vascular disease , chronic renal
insufficiency , and type II diabetes controlled on diet.
MEDICATIONS:
His medications at time of admission included aspirin 81 mg
daily , allopurinol 100 mg daily , Lopressor 50 mg t.i.d. , the
patient was on the prednisone taper , Hytrin 2 mg daily , Zocor 40
mg q.h.s. , Flovent , Prilosec , and Atrovent.
ALLERGIES:
He has allergies to sulfa , lisinopril , and quinine causing
platelet deficiency.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
The patient had quit cigarette and denied any alcohol or illicit
drug use.
FAMILY HISTORY:
Noncontributory.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Physical exam at the time of admission was notable for a
temperature of 101 , blood pressure 95/53 , oxygen saturation of
86% on 2 liters , pulse of 96 , and respiratory rate of 24. The
patient was noted to have crackles with left side being greater
than right. His cardiovascular exam had normal S1 , S2 regular
rate and rhythm with no rubs , murmurs or gallops. His
extremities were notable for trace edema. Neurologically , he was
intact.
LABORATORY DATA:
His labs at time of admission was notable for a creatinine of
1.7 , and a white cell count of 16 , he had a ABG with pH of 7.42 ,
PaCO2 of 35 , PaO2 of 52 , and 89% oxygen saturation on 2 liters.
His EKG showed T wave inversions in V2-V3 , flat V4 , borderline
first-degree AV block in sinus rhythm. Chest x-ray was notable
for left lower lobe pneumonia.
ASSESSMENT:
On assessment , this is a 73-year-old gentleman recently
discharged for minor COPD flare , presenting with acute hypoxemia
likely secondary to left lower lobe pneumonia with COPD.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Pulmonary:
a. Hypoxia: The patient presented with acute and chronic
hypoxia. The patient initially required short term MICU stay for
a BiPAP and was gradually weaned to facemask over 24 hours. On
day two of admission , he was weaned to 8 liters and was
transferred to the floor where his respiratory management was
continued. On 10/4/05 , day 3 of hospitalization , the patient
had been weaned to 5 liters when he began coughing and abruptly
desaturated to 70% oxygen saturation with complaints of shortness
of breath and chest pain and required nonrebreather. The patient
had no EKG changes and a chest x-ray was unchanged from prior on
9/30/05 .  The patient was given DuoNeb and chest PT. He was
stabilized and was able to be managed on the floor and
transitioned back to 8 liters. At time of discharge , he has been
weaned to 4 liters with 91-97% oxygen saturation. The patient
does continue to desaturate with activities and requires further
pulmonary rehabilitation including chest PT to remove mucus
plugging noted on CT PE from earlier hospitalization in April .
b. Pneumonia: The patient presented with left lower lobe
pneumonia. He was started on vancomycin , ceftriaxone , and
azithromycin on 9/30/05 .  He had a sputum culture positive for
MRSA and was therefore continued on vancomycin. He was briefly
transitioned to vancomycin with ceftazidime and Flagyl from
8/14/05 to 08 , but was switched back to vancomycin with
cefotaxime and azithromycin on 5/26/05 .  On day of discharge , he
will be leaving on vancomycin to complete two more days of
treatment for a total 10-day course. In addition , he will be
discharged on Levaquin for an additional seven-day course of
treatment for his pneumonia.
c. COPD: The patient has a history of COPD exacerbation and was
most recently discharged on 5/10/05 for mild COPD exacerbation
treated with DuoNeb and steroid taper. During this hospital
course , the patient continued on DuoNeb treatments as well as a
steroid taper. Given his acute clinical course in this
hospitalization , the patient did not have pulmonary function test
performed but with benefit from PFT studies as an outpatient. At
time of discharge , the patient is on 4 liters of oxygen and is
currently on prednisone 5 mg which will be tapered to his home
regimen of prednisone 5 mg every other day.
d. Hypertension: The patient had been noted to have a pulmonary
artery pressure in 2003 in the 60s but on this admission had an
echo at time of admission that noted that his pulmonary artery
pressure was now at 98 mmHg. The patient was followed by the
Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of Service to assess his pulmonary hypertension.
The patient will be followed as an outpatient by the
Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of Service and will likely need right heart
catheterization to assess his right heart function as well as his
pulmonary hypertension.
2. Cardiovascular:
a. Pump: The patient has congestive heart failure with
diastolic dysfunction with an ejection fraction around 60% as
noted on an echo done on 9/30/05 .  The patient initially had his
Lasix held due to his creatinine of 1.7 at time of admission.
However , given his acute respiratory status , as well as his
increasing edema during his hospital course , the patient was
again aggressively diuresed for his CHF exacerbation with Lasix.
At time of discharge , the patient still has trace edema and his
creatinine has remained at his baseline of 1.1-1.2. The patient
will be discharged on his home Lasix regimen of 40 mg p.o.
although he required IV Lasix on multiple occasions during his
hospital course.
b. Hypertension: The patient has a history of hypertension.
Overall , his systolic blood pressure remained in the range from
110-130s. The patient was on Lopressor during his hospital
course and had no acute issues regarding his hypertension.
c. Ischemia: The patient had been ruled out for MI with three
sets of negative cardiac biomarkers. He was continued on
telemetry and remained on a regimen of aspirin , beta blockers , as
well as statin during this hospital course.
d. Rate: The patient has a history of arrhythmias with
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and SVTs. At last admission on
10/10/05 , the patient presented to the ED in SVT and hypotensive
and reverted back to normal sinus rhythm after one dose of IV
Lopressor. The patient was continued on Lopressor 50 mg t.i.d.
during his hospital course with his DuoNeb treatments. The
patient did occasionally have heart rate into the 140s consistent
with AV nodal reentry tachycardia. These incidences did not last
more than 2 minutes and the patient was in general asymptomatic
from these arrhythmias although did occasionally did complain of
some shortness of breath on occasion during these periods of
arrhythmia. The patient is being continued on Lopressor 50 mg
t.i.d.
3. Endocrine: The patient has a history of type II diabetes
that was under diet control as an outpatient with steroid
treatment for his COPD exacerbation. The patient did have his
blood glucose measured regularly three times a day and required a
regular insulin sliding scale for his steroid-induced diabetes.
With tapering of the steroids , the patient's blood glucose has
generally ranged between 100-150 and has required less insulin.
While the patient is on steroids , we will continue to monitor his
blood glucose level and cover with insulin as needed. The
patient will follow up with his primary care physician and
discuss further his overall need for oral hypoglycemic agents.
4. Renal: The patient has a history of chronic renal
insufficiency with baseline creatinine around 1.1-1.2. At
initial time of presentation , his creatinine was 1.7 and his
Lasix had been held. However , the patient developed lower
extremity edema with shortness of breath and required Lasix for
his CHF exacerbation. His creatinine was followed closely during
his hospital course and with Lasix diureses his creatinine did
rise slowly to 1.4 , however , the benefits of diureses for CHF
exacerbation outweighed his chronic renal insufficiency state.
We would recommend that the patient follow up with his primary
care physician to monitor his renal state.
5. FEN: During this hospital course , the patient's electrolytes
were monitored and repleted as needed. He had no acute issues
regarding his electrolytes or nutritional status. However , the
patient should continue on low-salt 2 g sodium diet as well as
limit his fluid intake to 1.5 liters per day.
6. ID: The patient , at initial time of admission , had a
temperature of 101.2 with white cell count as high as 16. He was
found on chest x-ray to have a left lower lobe pneumonia and was
started on a antibiotic course as dictated above in pulmonary.
The patient remained afebrile through the extent of this hospital
course while on the antibiotic therapy his sputum cultures were
positive for MRSA. At time of discharge , he will be continued on
his antibiotics on vancomycin for an additional two days for a
total of 10-day course and he will also be started on Levaquin
for a seven-day course. At time of discharge , the patient
remained afebrile with his white cell count of 12.6. The patient
is on prednisone , which can slightly his overall white cell
count. The patient is aware that if he had worsening of his
sputum production as well as fevers , to seek medical attention.
7. Heme: The patient had no active issues.
8. GI: The patient had regular bowel movements during his
hospital course and deferred bowel regimen. He was on proton
pump inhibitor for prophylaxis and would be continued on this as
an outpatient.
PROPHYLAXIS:
The patient received heparin 5000 units subcutaneous t.i.d.
CODE STATUS:
The patient is full code.
DISPOSITION:
The patient will be discharged to rehab for further management of
his pneumonia as well as for pulmonary rehabilitation with
physical therapy.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
At time of discharge includes Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.
for headaches , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , allopurinol 100 mg p.o.
daily , Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.a.m. , heparin 5000 units subcutaneous
t.i.d. , regular insulin Humulin sliding scale subcutaneous a.c. ,
Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. to be held if pulse is less than 60
systolic blood pressures are less than 110. The patient will be
discharged on a prednisone taper. He is currently at 5 mg q.24h.
x2 doses and then to be continued on prednisone at 5 mg every 48
hours. Hytrin 2 mg p.o. daily , vancomycin 1 g IV daily for an
additional two days , Zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Nexium 20 mg p.o.
daily , Levaquin 500 mg p.o. daily , DuoNeb at 3/0.5 mg nebulizer
q.6h. and levalbuterol 1.25 mg nebulizer q.6h. , as well as
albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebulizer q.2h. p.r.n. for shortness
of breath and wheezing , with these cautioning using albuterol in
patient given history of SVT after albuterol treatments.
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENT:
The patient has follow up with Dr. Wurth , his primary care
physician , at S Wilthes Hospital on
Monday 10/21/05 at 9.40 a.m. He also has an appointment with Dr.
Piontkowski , his pulmonologist , on Monday , 1/29/05 at 10.40 a.m.
and the patient will need to contact the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of Service
to follow up his pulmonary hypertension and right heart
dysfunction within the next month , phone number to reach him is
by 274-244-3762.
eScription document: 2-5861807 EMSSten Tel
CC: Brendan Danyelle Wurth MD
Wildbirc St , Peo Rageden Rock , Kansas 59764
CC: Hermina Tuomala MD
Ata Sti Ma
Dictated By: CHRISTAL , OLIN
Attending: WARRAN , MARCOS
Dictation ID 4634782
D: 2/21/05
T: 2/21/05