612716361 | PUO | 94726297 | | 2285874 | 5/14/2007 12:00:00 AM | CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/18/2007 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 3/18/2007
ATTENDING: CLARDY , CHRISTY MD
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: COPD exacerbation.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: Include pneumonia , acute renal failure and
hyperkalemia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Briefly this is a 60-year-old
gentleman with COPD on 3 liters home O2 and a history of multiple
past intubations to his noncompliant with his home oxygen therapy
and chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of
approximately 2 , coronary artery disease status post end-stomy ,
diastolic heart failure who presented to the Emergency Department
with shortness of breath , chest tightness and wheezing times
several days. He also complained of a productive cough and was
found to have a room air oxygen saturation of 82% that improved
to the mid 90s on nonrebreather. He was admitted to the ICU
where he was started on BiPAP and given prednisone and nebulizer
treatments. Chest x-ray identified a right middle lobe
infiltrate and the patient was placed on vancomycin , levofloxacin
and ceftazidime. Ceftazidime was later discontinued. He was
quickly weaned to 5 liters nasal cannula. An ABG checked on
admission showed partial CO2 of 60 which is the patient's
baseline. He was also found to be on acute renal failure with a
creatinine of 4.9 that improved with gentle fluids. Potassium
was elevated at 6.4 and the patient did undergo a single run of
hemodialysis.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: COPD , coronary artery disease status post
end-stomy , diabetes , chronic renal insufficiency , hyperlipidemia
and gout.
HOME MEDICATIONS: Include aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , Norvasc 10
mg p.o. daily , Toprol 100 mg p.o. daily , Avapro 150 mg p.o.
daily , Lasix 80 mg p.o. daily , Lipitor 40 mg p.o. nightly , TriCor
48 mg p.o. daily , NPH 55 units in the morning , 34 units in the
evening , NovoLog 8 units q.a.c. , allopurinol 300 mg p.o. daily ,
Singulair 10 mg p.o. daily , albuterol 2 puffs p.r.n. , Combivent
p.r.n. , Advair 500/50 b.i.d. , multivitamin once per day , folate 1
mg p.o. daily and loratadine 10 mg p.o. daily.
ALLERGIES: There are no known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: A 30-pack-year history of smoking , history of
current alcohol use , five drinks per day.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On transfer to the floor temperature is
96 , pulse 82 , blood pressure 150/72 , respiratory rate is 24 ,
oxygen saturation 94% on 5 liters nasal cannula. He is in no
apparent distress. Heart is regular rate and rhythm without
murmurs , rubs or gallops. He has good air movement but
expiratory wheezes and prolonged expiratory phase. There are no
rales. His abdomen is soft , obese , nontender and bowel sounds
are present. There is 1+ pitting edema bilaterally.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission to the floor , BUN 211 , creatinine
3.5 , potassium 4.4. White count 13.4 , hematocrit 25.8 , platelets
492 and INR 1.3. Microbiology , numerous blood , sputum and urine
cultures are negative. Studies and echocardiogram from 7/21
shows an EF of 55-60% with no regional wall abnormalities.
IMPRESSION: This is a 60-year-old gentleman admitted for a COPD
exacerbation in the setting of likely pneumonia with acute on
chronic renal failure and hyperkalemia that has resolved since
his admission.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Pulmonary: The patient was kept on prednisone 60 mg p.o.
daily for the first several days of his floor admission and he
was continued on DuoNeb q.6 h. , albuterol labs were added q.6 h.
staggered with DuoNeb such that he was receiving nebulizer
treatments every three hours. He was continued on chest PT. The
patient was started on CPAP overnight for history of obstructive
sleep apnea. He had not been compliant with CPAP as an
outpatient. Advair was continued. The patient did well with
this regimen and his oxygen requirements were titrated from 5
liters to 2.5 liters at the time of discharge. At this level of
oxygen he was satting in the low to mid 90s with ambulatory sat
of approximately 90%. The importance of continuing use of home
oxygen both during the day and at night was discussed at length
with the patient , though he continued to complain that he had
difficulty going about his daily activities wearing his oxygen. Prednisone
was slowly tapered and at the time of discharge the patient was
taking 40 mg of prednisone per day. He will take 20 mg starting
the first day after his discharge and will complete a slow
approximately 2-week taper. His home dose of Lasix was
continued. The patient was not felt to be clinically volume
overloaded. However , he auto-diuresed 1-2 liters the majority
of the days he was admitted to the floor. Followup was arranged
with the patient's primary care provider and his pulmonologist
Dr. Hernandes . The possibility of inpatient pulmonary rehabilitation
was discussed at length with the patient and his wife who were
extremely resistant to any other inpatient care. He is therefore
discharged with home VNA , though the possibility of inpatient vs outpatient
pulmonary rehabilitation should be considered at his followup.
2. Renal: The patient's creatinine trended down throughout his
time on the floor. This happened in the setting of continued
auto-diuresis , suggesting that his initial renal failure was due
to a low flow state as result of heart failure rather than
hypovolemia. At the time of discharge his creatinine was 1.3.
He was followed by the Renal Team during his admission. His ARB
was initially held but then restarted upon improvement of his
creatinine. Per renal , his elevated BUN in the range of 200 was
felt to be secondary to steroid use. This had normalized by the
time of discharge. The patient was worked up for a possible AV
fistula or graft placement in the left upper extremity in the
near future. He will follow up with vascular surgery as an
outpatient for vein mapping as an outpatient. He should not receive blood
draws in the left upper extremity of avoidable.
3. Infectious disease: The patient was continued on vancomycin
and Levaquin for a seven-day course. He completed this course
during this hospitalization and he discharged off antibiotics.
All cultures were no growth at the time of discharge.
4. Cardiovascular: He was continued on aspirin and
anti-lipidemics. His Lopressor was titrated for hypertension and
he is discharged on 300 mg of Toprol per day the rest of his
antihypertensive medicines have not changed. He was kept on tele
during his admission and did have occasional episodes of NSVT
usually triplets or couplets. These were asymptomatic.
5. Endocrine: Mr. Hargrow insulin requirements increased
dramatically during his ICU admission , likely as a result of
steroid use and stress. His insulin requirements fell to their
preadmission levels during his admission on the floor.
6. Prophylaxis: He was maintained on heparin and proton pump
inhibitor.
CODE STATUS: The patient is full code.
PHYSICAL EXAM ON DISCHARGE: He is in no apparent distress.
Heart , regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , rubs or gallops.
His lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally without wheezes ,
rales or rhonchi. Abdomen is soft , obese , nontender , bowel
sounds are present. He has trace peripheral edema bilaterally.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Please see remainder of discharge
paperwork.
DISPOSITION: To home with VNA. He should follow up with both
his primary care doctor and pulmonologist. These appointments
have been arranged for him.
eScription document: 7-0533577 CSSten Tel
CC: Luz Hilger M.D.
I Temedma Doch Health University And Hospital
Holl
CC: Christy Clardy MD
KTDUOO
Tarmney Pkwy. , Ward Ro Co , Colorado 85636
CC: Lawerence Niu M.D.
Bondering Ogenete Memorial Hospital
Liet Well
Dictated By: BENTHAM , VIVIEN
Attending: CLARDY , CHRISTY
Dictation ID 6879635
D: 10/26/07
T: 10/26/07