380365284 | PUO | 78244363 | | 6836478 | 11/29/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/10/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: PETTINGER , DOUGLASS MD
DATE OF DISCHARGE: Not known at the time of this interim
dictation.
SERVICE: I Car Health Center .
PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: Congestive heart failure.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: Postpartum cardiomyopathy status post
mitral valve repair , status post tricuspid valve repair , status
post ICD/pacer placement , asthma , and anemia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 33-year-old female with a
history of postpartum cardiomyopathy ( EF 15% to 20% ) , status post
pacer/ICD placement , status post mitral valve
replacement/tricuspid valve replacement , who presents with
abdominal pain , decreased appetite , nausea , vomiting , and
occasional chest pain. The patient has had multiple recent
admissions to Pagham University Of .  In October 2005 , the
patient presented with chest pain and was found to be in
decompensated heart failure. She ruled out for myocardial
infarction. She was diuresed with torsemide. A MIBI prior to
this admission in October 2005 had showed no evidence of
ischemia. The patient was more recently readmitted in July
2005. During this admission , she underwent mitral valve repair
and tricuspid valve repair given severe mitral regurgitation and
tricuspid regurgitation. She had a catheterization on 6/12/05 ,
which showed normal coronary arteries , no equalization of
diastolic pressures , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 19 ,
and 4+ mitral regurgitation. A TTE during this admission showed
an EF of 15% to 20% with wall motion abnormalities. She had mild
right ventricular enlargement and decreased right ventricular
function. Pulmonary artery systolic pressure was 16 plus right
atrial pressures. She was also found to have a 1.5-cm
pericardial effusion. On this admission , the patient's primary
complaints involve decreased appetite , nausea , vomiting , and
abdominal pain. The patient reports frequent vomiting after
meals. The vomitus is nonbloody and nonbilious. The patient
denies diarrhea , in fact , she has been constipated. Her last
bowel movement was on the day of admission , but she did not have
a bowel movement four to five days prior to this time. She
denies fever or chills. She denies dysuria or hematuria. She
denies melena or bright red blood per rectum. She reports
intermittent shortness of breath , which she believes to be her
baseline. She denies weight gain , orthopnea , or PND. The
patient reports occasional tightness in her left chest , which
occurs a few times each week. There are no associated ischemic
symptoms. The pain is nonexertional and it is pleuritic. In the
emergency room , the patient was afebrile with a pulse of 97 and a
blood pressure of 98/58. Her cardiac enzymes were negative x1.
A PE protocol CT was negative for pulmonary embolus. The patient
was noted on this CAT scan to have a pericardial effusion. The
patient was seen by the Cardiology Service who performed a
bedside echocardiogram , which showed effusion , but no evidence of
right atrial or right ventricular collapse.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Congestive heart failure.
2. Postpartum cardiomyopathy , October 2004.
3. Asthma.
4. Status post mitral valve repair , status post tricuspid valve
repair , 9/16/05 .
5. Status post pacer/ICD placement in October 2005.
6. Chronic cough.
7. History of HIT positivity.
8. Status post C-section.
ALLERGIES: The patient has a history of HIT.
MEDICATIONS: Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily , Colace , Niferex 150 mg
b.i.d. , Aldactone 25 mg daily , Toprol-XL 25 mg daily , K-Dur 20
mEq b.i.d. , torsemide 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. , 50 mg p.o. q.p.m. ,
Advair , Nexium 20 mg p.o. daily , and Coumadin ( unclear if the
patient is taking Coumadin ).
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her aunt and her
children. She has a visiting nurse. She denies tobacco or
alcohol use.
FAMILY HISTORY: Remarkable for breast cancer.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Temperature 96.6 , pulse 70 ,
blood pressure 80/60 , respirations 18 , O2 sat 96% on 2 liters.
The patient has no pulses ( 8 mmHg ). The patient is alert and in
no acute distress. She is dysphoric. Her pupils are equal and
reactive to light. Extraocular movements intact. Oropharynx
clear. JVP is 10 cm. There is no Kussmaul's sign. Heart has a
regular rate and rhythm. Normal S1 , S2 with 1/6 holosystolic
murmur at the apex. No S3 or S4 were noted. Lungs are clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Abdomen is soft , nontender ,
nondistended with normoactive bowel sounds. There is no rebound
or guarding. There is no costovertebral angle tenderness.
Extremities: The patient has trace edema bilaterally. She is
warm and well perfused. She has no calf tenderness. She is
alert and oriented x3. Her cranial nerves are intact. She has
5/5 strength throughout. Her affect is dysphoric.
LABORATORY ON ADMISSION: Remarkable for a potassium of 2.8 , BUN
6 , creatinine 0.7 , white count 10.43 , hematocrit 30.1 , platelets
423 , 000 , MCV is 79.4 , INR is 1.4 , PTT 30.9. D-dimer is 3273
despite the negative LENIs and negative PE protocol CT. First
set of cardiac enzymes is negative. EKG shows normal sinus
rhythm at 92 beats per minute with a normal axis. There are
occasional PVCs. There is T-wave inversion/flattening in V2
through V6 as well as leads I , aVL , II , III , and aVF. Urinalysis
shows trace leukocyte esterase , negative nitrites , 4 to 8 white
blood cells , no red blood cells , and 1+ bacteria. Urine hCG is
negative. Chest x-ray shows stable cardiomegaly without
pulmonary edema or infiltrate.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. Cardiovascular:
a. Ischemia. The patient reported chest pain on admission. The
chest pain was atypical for ischemia and that it was
nonexertional. It was pleuritic and it had no associated
ischemic symptoms. In addition , the patient had normal
coronaries on a recent catheterization in 3/22 as well as a
nonischemic MIBI in October 2005. The patient's enzymes were
negative on this admission. The patient was continued on her
beta-blocker.
b. Pump. The patient has a postpartum cardiomyopathy with an
ejection fraction of 15% to 20%. She also has a pericardial
effusion on this admission. On admission , there was no evidence
of tamponade by exam or by echocardiogram. The patient had a
repeat TTE on 10/18/05 , which showed pericardial effusion , which
was slightly larger than that seen in July 2005. There was
respirophasic variation , but no collapse. The patient's urine
output decreased on 8/26/05 and she underwent right heart
catheterization , which showed extremely elevated right and left
filling pressures ( pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in the 40s ,
right atrial pressure 27 ). The patient was initially placed on a
Lasix drip. She was also started on IV dobutamine to maintain
her blood pressure and for perfusion while being diuresed. After
a few days on this regimen , the patient had a repeat right heart
catheterization , which showed improved , but elevated left and
right filling pressures. A Swan catheter was left in place for
closer monitoring of the patient's hemodynamics and to allow for
tailored therapy. At the time of this dictation , the patient
will be tried on various inotropes including dopamine and
dobutamine with close monitoring of her hemodynamics. The
purpose of this is to assess the effect of these inotropes on her
hemodynamics , so there would be a time when she requires inotrope
therapy at home. The patient was also maintained on digoxin.
Her Aldactone was changed to eplerenone given the possibility
that Aldactone could be contributing to the patient's GI
complaints. At the time of this dictation , there is a plan in
place to try to add hydralazine/Isordil to the patient's regimen
for afterload reduction if her blood pressure can tolerate this.
In the past , the patient had suffered severe hypotension when
such medications have been added.
c. Rhythm. The patient is status post pacer/ICD placement. She
was monitored on telemetry. Her telemetry will be followed
closely for any evidence of ectopy while on dobutamine or
dopamine.
2. Pulmonary: The patient has a history of chronic cough. Past
chest CTs have shown ground-glass opacities most likely due to
edema , which have resolved on more recent imaging. Pulmonary
function test in July 2005 showed an FEV1 of 2.06 , FEV1/FVC of
102 , total lung capacity of 3.09 , and a DLCO corrected of 54%
predicted. The patient was continued on Advair and was given
Atrovent p.r.n. As mentioned previously , a PECT on admission was
negative.
3. Renal/FEN: The patient has hypokalemia in the setting of
diuresis. Her electrolytes were monitored b.i.d. and repleted as
needed. The patient's creatinine remained stable less than 1
throughout her admission. The patient was maintained on a
low-salt , food-restricted diet.
4. GI: The patient presented with a number of GI complaints
including abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , and anorexia. It is
not clear what the cause of these symptoms is. The patient had
normal liver function tests. She had a KUB , which showed no
obstruction. Her urine culture showed no evidence of urinary
tract infection. It is possible that abdominal pain was due to
constipation or as a side effect of Aldactone or even to a low
flow state in the setting decompensated heart failure. The
patient was continued on a bowel regimen and a proton pump
inhibitor. At the time of this dictation , the patient's
abdominal complaints have resolved.
5. Heme: The patient has a history of iron-deficiency anemia.
On admission , her hematocrit was 30 with a MCV of 79.4. The
patient takes iron supplementation at home. This was held
temporarily in the setting of constipation. The patient also
takes Coumadin for a low ejection fraction. This is also placed
on hold in the setting of various procedures including her right
heart catheterizations and PA catheter placement. It should be
noted that the patient has a history of HIT positive.
6. ID: On 9/15/05 , the patient had a temperature of 100. This
was status post placement of a PA catheter. There was concern
for a line infection. Blood cultures were drawn and the patient
was started on vancomycin. At the time of this dictation , blood
cultures showed no growths to date , but should continue to be
followed.
7. Psych: The patient has a history of depression. She
appeared dysphoric on admission , but denied any suicidality.
Both Psychiatry and Social Work were contacted who followed the
patient during this admission and who have followed the patient
on previous admission. The Psychiatry Service had recommended
Remeron for sleep , which the patient was given with good effect.
8. Prophylaxis: The patient was given Pneumoboots early on in
her admission and then was out of bed several times each day.
She was also given a proton pump inhibitor.
9. Code: The patient is full code.
The events that occur after the time of this dictation , the
disposition , discharge condition , followup , and discharge
medications will be dictated in an addendum to this discharge
summary.
eScription document: 1-2096456 ISFocus transcriptionists
CC: Douglass Pettinger MD
Kee , Washington
Dictated By: CONEDY , ARMINDA
Attending: PETTINGER , DOUGLASS
Dictation ID 8946563
D: 7/18/05
T: 7/18/05