631556849 | PUO | 86885928 | | 2632645 | 4/2/2006 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/28/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: BOHANAN , SHEA M.D.
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN: Kristian Maglione , NP
SERVICE: DMCO
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Shortness of breath.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Thivener is a 49-year-old woman
with a history of CHF , COPD on 3 to 4 liters at home , CAD , status
post CABG , PE with a recent admission for cellulitis complicated
by hypoxic respiratory failure requiring intubation as well as
recent admission for shortness of breath and fluid overload
complicated by PE while anticoagulated leading to a pulseless
electrical activity. The patient was also admitted to PUO from
5/15/06 to 07 for respiratory distress again with fluid
overload requiring diuresis. The patient was discharged to the
De Pike Hospital .  On the day of admission , the patient
complained of burning chest pain and shortness of breath
different from her previous cardiac chest pain. The patient also
notes that she did not feel well.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Positive for chest pain , shortness of breath ,
no palpitations , no neck , jaw or back pain , no nausea or
vomiting , no dizziness , positive body swelling and positive
20-pound weight gain over one month.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.
2. BuSpar 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.
3. Lasix 120 mg IV b.i.d.
4. Metazolone 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
5. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6. Prozac 20 mg p.o. daily.
7. Methadone 10 mg p.o. daily.
8. Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.
9. Senna two tablets p.o. b.i.d.
10. Verapamil 40 mg p.o. t.i.d.
11. Coumadin 33 mg at bedtime.
12. Multivitamin.
13. Folate.
14. Zocor 40 mg p.o. at bedtime.
15. K-Dur 80 mg p.o. t.i.d.
16. OxyContin 10 mg p.o. at bedtime.
17. Seroquel 300 mg at bedtime.
18. DuoNeb p.r.n.
19. Albuterol p.r.n.
20. Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.
21. Insulin Aspart sliding scale.
ALLERGIES: None.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is homeless , but occasionally lives
with family. No tobacco history. Positive ETOH. Positive
addiction , methadone.
PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION: Vital signs stable. Cardiac ,
irregularly irregular. No murmurs , gallops or rubs. Pulmonary ,
bibasilar crackles and wheezes. Abdomen , firm , distended ,
nontender , no rebound or guarding. Lower extremities , edematous.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: A1 49-year-old woman with a history of CHF ,
COPD , CAD , status post CABG , status post PE with CHF exacerbation
complicated by acute renal failure , hyperkalemia and UTI.
PLAN:
1. Cardiovascular: Ischemia. Because of the patient's new
onset of CHF , she was ruled out for MI shortly after admission.
Serial enzymes and EKGs were negative for ischemia. The
patient's chest pain , however was not consistent with the
patient's usual cardiac pain. During her stay , the patient was
maintained on an aspirin , beta-blocker and a statin , although the
chest pain was gone on arrival to the ED. Throughout the three
months of the patient's stay , she did experience similar burning ,
substernal chest pain. EKGs and enzymes sent during these
episodes were always negative for ischemia. It was felt that
this pain was likely secondary to GERD , as it often responded to
Maalox , benzo , lidocaine and/or food.
2. Pump: The patient's primary symptoms of shortness of breath
likely due to fluid overload. The patient was diuresed with IV
Lasix on the medicine floor. However , on 10/22/06 , the patient
experienced somnolence , low respiratory rate and desaturations in
the setting of opioid administration for pain. The patient
responded partially to Narcan and was transferred to the CCU for
three days for increased monitoring and continuation of diuresis
with a goal of negative 2 liters per day. The patient was
transitioned off methadone and on to oxycodone p.r.n. The
patient was maintained on BiPAP and given albuterol and DuoNeb
inhalers. She passed through this acute decompensation with no
further complications and was transferred back to DMCO on
7/7/06 .  On the floor , the patient was transitioned to p.o.
Lasix. She was diuresed with a goal of 1 to 1.5 liters per day.
IV Lasix were administered p.r.n. shortness of breath/physical
exam consistent with fluid overload. One week prior to transfer ,
the patient was transitioned back to IV Lasix as her daily output
had slowed on p.o. Lasix , she was unable to make TBB goals. On
transfer , the patient shows signs of fluid overload , lower
extremity edema at bedtime BiPAP requirement , but relatively
while pulmonary compensation. The patient's dry weight is about
200 pounds.
3. Rhythm: The patient has a history of afib. She was rate
controlled with Lopressor and verapamil. She was also
anticoagulated for both her afib and a recent PE with an INR goal
of 2 to 3. Rate control was obtained with the beta-blocker and
calcium channel blocker. During the stay , the patient's heart
rate is often slightly faster than goal ranging in the 90s to
110s. Further rate control is limited by the patient's BP with
systolics often in the 90s to 100s. The patient was begun on
verapamil , which was titrated up with her beta-blocker , which was
titrated down. On transfer , the patient was on verapamil 60 mg
p.o. t.i.d. and atenolol 70 mg p.o. daily.
4. Pulmonary: The patient's pulmonary issues as described
above. The patient also has a history of PE and COPD/asthma.
Post MICU , the patient was maintained on 4 to 5 liters oxygen by
nasal cannula and during the day with BiPAP at nighttime. The
patient's O2 requirement remained stable until transfer , although
requiring albuterol nebs p.r.n. The patient was kept on Coumadin
for PE with an INR goal of 2 to 3.
5. Renal: The patient's baseline creatinine was 0.8. On
admission , the patient had ARF felt to be due to CHF/volume
overload leading to poor cardiac output , decreasing perfusion to
the kidneys. As the patient was diuresed , her renal function
improved. This was stable throughout her stay until 10/24/06
when her creatinine began to rise. It was felt that this was due
to a combination over diuresis leading to a prerenal state. No
medication changes have been made near that time except for Lasix
p.o. to IV. In the setting of creatinine bump , Lasix and
spironolactone were discontinued on 10/12/06 .  On 10/25/06 , Lasix
20 IV daily was restarted because of an improving creatinine , but
again held when creatinine returned as 1.5. On transfer , the
patient not on Lasix secondary to creatinine bumps/ARF. We did
not hydrate but monitor creatinine and continue diuresis when
able. Likely prerenal secondary to intravascular depletion
caused by liver cirrhosis leading to poor intravascular
albumin/osmotic pressure. In the setting of discontinuing of
Lasix and poor renal function , the patient did become
hyperkalemic x2 during the week of transfer. The patient did not
initially respond to Kayexalate and lactulose , as she did not
have a bowel movement likely due to opioid use. The patient did
respond to insulins and D50. On 5/30/06 , the patient again had
the elevated potassium to 5.5 , Kayexalate and lactulose x2 ,
produced two bowel movements lowering her K appropriately.
6. ID: During the stay , the patient was treated for UTI with a
three-day course of levofloxacin. Upon discharge , the patient
was asymptomatic.
7. GI: The patient was known to have vascular ectasias in her
stomach. The patient is still guaiac positive during her stay
with no active bleeding. Complicating this is the patient's need
for anticoagulation secondary to recent PE and afib. This is
felt to be the cause of her slowly dropping hematocrit for which
she required occasional weekly transfusions of packed red blood
cells. The patient on a PPI b.i.d. The patient also has
cirrhosis leading to poor synthetic function , poor intravascular
osmotic pool contributing to fluid overload.
8. Heme: As above , the patient required several transfusions of
TIBCs , although no more than once every one to two weeks. Felt
due to slow GI losses.
9. Endocrine: During the patient's stay , she was on a basal
Lantus with Aspart coverage. This was titrated up to achieve
good glycemic control. On discharge , the patient was on Lantus
42 units subcu at bedtime and Aspart 10 units a.c./h.s. with an
Aspart sliding scale. This achieved fingerstick glucoses of 120s
to 160s.
10. Psych: The patient has a history of addiction and came to
PUO on methadone. During the patient's stay , methadone was
tapered and the patient transitioned to oxycodone. The patient
often complained of back pain and burning foot pain felt to be
neuropathy , which was relieved by opioids. The patient often
refusing NSAIDs. On transfer , the patient was on oxycodone 5 to
10 mg p.o. q. 6 h. p.r.n. pain , often taking 10 mg x4 a day. The
patient also complaints of anxiety and insomnia for which 0.5 mg
of Ativan achieved good resolution. At transfer , the patient was
not on standing Ativan just requiring occasional one-time orders
at bedtime. Neurontin was also titrated up during the patient's
stay. Finally , the patient was started on nortriptyline at
bedtime for pain with good effect.
PHYSICAL EXAM ON DISCHARGE: The patient was alert and oriented
x3 sitting up in a cardiac chair , able to walk to the bathroom
unassisted. Off of O2 , although does experience mild shortness
of breath. Pupils equal , round and reactive to light and
accommodation. Extraocular movements intact. Cardiovascular ,
irregularly irregular with no murmurs , gallops or rubs.
Pulmonary , faint bibasilar crackles and no wheezes. Abdomen ,
distended and nontender. Extremities , warm , well perfused with
dressings on the lower calf , which are clean , dry and intact.
Neuro , cranial nerves II through XII grossly intact. Strength
5/5 throughout with no sensory deficits.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1. DuoNeb q. 6 h. p.r.n. shortness of breath/wheezing.
2. Aquaphor topical daily.
3. Atenolol 25 mg p.o. daily.
4. BuSpar 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.
5. Digoxin 0.0625 mg p.o. daily.
6. Duloxetine 60 mg at bedtime.
7. Nexium 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
8. Neurontin 300 mg b.i.d. and 600 mg at bedtime.
9. Ibuprofen 100 mg p.o. q. 6 h. p.r.n. pain.
10. Insulin Aspart 10 units SC , a.c. plus sliding scale.
11. Lantus 42 units subcu at bedtime.
12. Lactulose 30 mL p.o. q.i.d.
13. Maalox liquid maximum strength 10 to 20 mL p.o. q. 6 h.
p.r.n. upset stomach.
14. Reglan 10 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. nausea.
15. Miconazole nitrate 2% powder topical b.i.d.
16. Nortriptyline 25 mg p.o. at bedtime.
17. Oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q. 6 h. p.r.n. pain.
18. Seroquel 3000 mg p.o. q.p.m.
19. Sarna topical daily.
20. Verapamil 60 mg p.o. t.i.d.
21. Coumadin 3.5 mg p.o. q.p.m.
TO-DO PLAN: To accepting MD.
ACTIVE ISSUES:
1. Fluid balance. The patient is still volume overload with a
baseline weight at 200 pounds , however , the patient
intravascularly dry likely secondary to cirrhosis. Discharge
diuresis was limited by acute renal failure likely prerenal. The
patient has received packed red blood cells for a low hematocrit
and for colloid fluid resuscitation. The patient responds to
Lasix 40 mg IV or 80 mg p.o. Please continue when renal function
improves.
2. Electrolytes. The patient hyperkalemic twice this week
secondary to poor urine output and acute renal failure , responds
to lactulose and K. The patient's EKG was unchanged.
3. GI bleed. The patient has vascular ectasias in her GI tract ,
however , she is on Coumadin for afib and PE. She is on Nexium 40
mg p.o. b.i.d. and her stools are guaiac positive.
4. Heme. The patient has a slowly dropping crit , might be
secondary to the slow GI bleed. Transfused with a goal
hematocrit greater than 25. Her INR goal is 2 to 3.
5. Physical therapy has worked with the patient and she is able
to get out of bed to the bathroom by herself , though slowly.
6. Pulmonary. The patient is on BiPAP at night , able to secure
facemask on by herself. She is on 4 to 5 liters of nasal cannula
during the daytime , though she often takes , but removes the
oxygen.
7. Psych/Pain: The patient is on oxycodone at minimum , has
received 10 mg x3 a day , now at 4 to 5 per day. The patient is
full code.
eScription document: 2-0927787 CSSten Tel
CC: Kristian Maglione NP
Ryscent Medical Center
CC: Talitha Boynes M.D.
Lu Ant Wood
CC: Shea Bohanan M.D.
Rie Di
Dictated By: BOYNES , TALITHA
Attending: LATORIA OGDEN , M.D. JH54
Dictation ID 4047032
D: 10/29/06
T: 10/29/06