506204373 | PUO | 74372820 | | 0168083 | 5/4/2005 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/10/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/2/2005
ATTENDING: PETTINGER , DOUGLASS MD
PRIMARY DIAGNOSES:
1. Atrial fibrillation with RVR.
2. Congestive heart failure.
3. Sick sinus syndrome.
4. Delirium.
OTHER DIAGNOSES:
1. Diabetes , newly diagnosed.
2. Chronic anticoagulation.
3. Hypertension.
4. History of GI bleed.
5. Prior CVA.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Mr. Burrs is an 89-year-old male with a history of multiple
medication problems , including hypertension , atrial fibrillation ,
sick sinus syndrome , history of colon cancer and prostate cancer ,
status post embolic stroke in 3/22 , and history of congestive
heart failure with an EF of 40-50% , who presented to the
emergency room complaining of two days of increased lethargy. At
that time , he denied cough , chest pain , shortness of breath , PND
or orthopnea. In the emergency room , the patient was found to
have a heart rate in the 120s with a new left bundle-branch
block. Carotid massage was attempted and the patient blocked to
15:1 due to sick sinus syndrome. An echocardiogram was done in
the emergency room , which revealed an EF of 25%. It was felt
that the patient was in acute congestive heart failure
exacerbation secondary to the atrial fibrillation with RVR. It
was deemed at that time too dangerous to pharmacologically
convert the patient. He was transferred to the Coronary Care
Unit for placement of a transvenous pacer.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hypertension.
2. Arthritis.
3. Atrial fibrillation , on anticoagulation.
4. History of prostate cancer , status post prostatectomy.
5. History of colon cancer , status post partial colectomy.
6. History of dementia.
7. History of GI bleed.
8. Status post MRSA wound infection.
9. Status post embolic CVA in 6/17/05 .
10. Sick sinus syndrome.
HOME MEDICATIONS:
1. Colace.
2. Coumadin.
3. Folate.
4. Synthroid 25 mcg daily.
5. Toprol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6. Protonix.
7. Zyprexa.
8. Aspirin.
ALLERGIES:
No known allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
The patient denies cigarette , drug or alcohol use.
FAMILY HISTORY:
The patient had a father who died at the age of 63 of a heart
attack. There is a family history of colon cancer.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:
Afebrile , pulse irregular , 125; blood pressure 140/100. Pulse
oximetry was 97% on 2 liters. General: This is an elderly male
in no acute distress. Neck: Supple , no lymphadenopathy , no
thyroid enlargement , JVP at 18 cm with flutter waves. Carotids
are 2+ bilaterally. Pulmonary: Bibasilar rales.
Cardiovascular: Irregular rate and rhythm , tachycardic , S1 , S2
normal. No murmurs , rubs or gallops. Abdomen: Soft , nontender
and nondistended. Bowel sounds are present. Extremities: Warm
bilaterally , 2+ pitting lower extremity edema. No clubbing or
cyanosis.
LABORATORY STUDIES UPON ADMISSION:
Notable for mild elevation of the white blood cell count of 11.0 ,
hematocrit of 40.6 , and platelets of 218 , 000. Electrolytes were
within normal limits. The creatinine was mildly elevated at 1.3.
BNP was markedly elevated at 7931. Coagulation showed an INR of
2.9. LFTs were within normal limits. Cardiac enzymes showed a
CK of 129 , CK-MB of 5.9 , and an elevated troponin at 0.27. EKG:
Atrial flutter with RVR , rate in the 120s , and new left
bundle-branch block. Chest x-ray: Cardiomegaly and
cephalization , no acute infiltrate.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN UPON ADMISSION:
This is an 89-year-old male with a history of sick sinus
syndrome , atrial fibrillation , on Coumadin , as well as congestive
heart failure , who was admitted for atrial fibrillation/atrial
flutter with RVR , and decompensated congestive heart failure. At
the time of admission , the patient was felt to be at risk
secondary to his sick sinus syndrome and new left bundle-branch
block. He was felt to be at risk for asystole and symptomatic
bradycardia with any blocking agents. Therefore , transvenous
pacer was scheduled to be placed in the Cath Lab.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Cardiovascular:
a. Rhythm: Shortly after admission , the patient had a temporary
ventricular pacer placed on 9/13/05 with a heart rate of less
than 50. After the procedure , the patient was admitted to the
CCU with atrial flutter with RVR and a rate in the 20s. The rate
was intermittently controlled with a combination of IV digoxin
and Lopressor. On 6/6/05 , a permanent dual-chamber pacemaker
was implanted with VVI at 50. Throughout the next two days , the
patient's heart rate continued to be difficult to control , but
improved with diltiazem. The patient was initiated on an
amiodarone load on 8/22/05 .  The following day , he converted to
normal sinus rhythm spontaneously. At that time , he continued to
be ventricularly paced , and the pacemaker was changed to DDD on
10/21/05 .  For the remainder of the hospitalization , the patient
remained in normal sinus rhythm and was dual-paced without any
recurrence of arrhythmias. He will be continued on his
amiodarone load , which was 2.9 g upon discharge and we continued
for a total load of 10 g.
b. Pump: Upon admission , an echocardiogram on 5/23/05 showed
an EF of 20-25% with regional wall motion abnormalities noted in
the intraventricular septum , which was akinetic as well as global
hyperkinesis of the left ventricle. On admission , the patient
had indications of heart failure , including increased JVP and
bilateral lower extremity edema , as well as pulmonary effusions.
The patient was diuresed effectively with low-dose IV Lasix. His
admission weight was 91 kg , and upon discharge , it was
approximately 87 kg. The patient was given intermittent Lasix 10
mg IV for diuresis to maintain a negative I&amp;O of 500 mL. Upon
discharge , the patient may require continued diuresis with home
regimen of p.o. Lasix. In addition , the patient was noted to
have marked hypertension throughout his stay. Blood pressure was
occasionally difficulty to control , and at times , required IV
nitro drip. Systolic blood pressures were noted to as high as
180 and as low as 100 with IV nitro drip. The patient's blood
pressure was managed with calcium channel blocker , beta-blocker ,
as well as ACE inhibitor. Upon transfer to the cardiology floor
on 10/21/05 , the p.o. diltiazem was increased. Upon discharge ,
the patient will be continued on a home regimen of lisinopril 10
mg p.o. daily , Toprol-XL 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , and diltiazem
extended release 360 mg p.o. daily. At the time of discharge ,
the patient's blood pressure was well controlled with systolic
blood pressures ranging from 110 to 120s.
c. Ischemia: Upon admission , the patient had cardiac enzyme
elevation with initially 0.27 , which elevated to a max of 1.27 on
10/23/05 .  Initially , the enzyme elevations were thought to be
secondary to demand ischemia in the setting of an elevated heart
rate and volume overload. However , the patient underwent a
cardiac catheterization on 2/25/05 which showed evidence of
coronary artery disease , two-vessel disease , specifically , there
was a LAD proximal 90% lesion as well as diffuse proximal-mid
standing 80% lesion , as well as RTLV-BR mid discrete 80% lesion
beyond the bifurcation of RPDA. On 2/25/05 , the patient had a
successful roto-ablation , angioplasty , and insertion of three
cipher DES to the LAD resulting in TIMI 2 flow. On 1/1/05 , the
patient returned to the cath lab , and at that time , he had a DES
placement at distal RCA. The patient denied a chest pain
throughout his stay. Upon discharge , he was able to ambulate
without significant dyspnea on exertion or chest discomfort.
2. Psychiatry: At the beginning of the hospital stay , the
patient was confused and somewhat agitated. His behavior was
controlled with Haldol as well as p.r.n. Ativan. The patient's
confusion and delirium improved significantly , and the Haldol and
Ativan were tapered off. Prior to discharge , he was reinitiated
on his home regimen of Zyprexa. The patient has a longstanding
history of dementia. Geriatrics consult followed in this case
and advised on titration of a Haldol.
3. Vascular: Following the cardiac catheterization , the patient
was noted to have a right femoral bruit. A vacular ultrasound
was obtained on 7/18/05 and did not show any evidence of an AV
fistula.
4. Heme: The patient is on chronic anticoagulation for atrial
fibrillation. Upon admission , his INR was 2.9 and became
elevated to a supratherapeutic level. Therefore , his Coumadin
was held. The patient will be reinitiated on Coumadin when his
INR is below 2. Goal INR will be between 2 and 3.
5. Endocrine: The patient has a history of hypothyroidism and
was continued on his home dose of Synthroid 25 mcg p.o. daily.
Thyroid function tests were checked and were within normal
limits. In addition , the patient was noted to have mildly
elevated fasting blood glucoses during his admission. His blood
sugars ranged from 95 to 182. He was maintained on a regular
sliding scale insulin and required only minimal units of
supplemental insulin. A hemoglobin A1c was ordered , and the
results are still pending at this time.
6. GI: The patient was noted to have significant constipation
throughout his stay and was continued on an aggressive bowel
regimen , which included Colace , senna , lactulose , and Dulcolax.
The patient has a history of GI bleed. He was noted to have a
small amount of blood in the stools secondary to constipation ,
but this was resolved with additional bowel movements. His
hematocrit remained stable , with no signs of anemia. The patient
does have a history of colon cancer for which he underwent a
colectomy. He will be followed as an outpatient.
7. FEN: Due to the patient's heart failure , he was placed on a
2-liter fluid restriction as well as 2 g salt restriction. The
patient was continued on a low-cholesterol , low-salt diet. Due
to his mild sedation with Haldol , the patient was evaluated by
speech and swallow and initially placed on mechanical soft diet
with some honey-thick liquids. As his mental status improved
significantly , the patient was returned to a house diet ,
low-cholesterol , low-fat , with the previous salt and fluid
restrictions. The patient was continued on light scale
throughout his stay.
8. ID: The patient was noted to have a urinary tract infection
based on urinalysis upon admission. His culture remained
negative throughout his stay. He was initially given
ceftriaxone. Initially , he was started on Keflex following on
pacemaker placement for antibiotic coverage , which was
discontinued on 1/12/05 .  The patient remained afebrile , with no
signs of systemic infection throughout his stay.
9. Prophylaxis: The patient was placed on a PPI. His INR
remained subtherapeutic throughout his stay.
COMPLICATIONS:
None.
CONSULTANTS:
EP fellow , Dr. Cabreja attending Dr. Dominguez .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION UPON DISCHARGE:
General: This is a pleasant elderly female in no acute distress ,
alert and oriented x3. HEENT: Normocephalic and atraumatic.
Extraocular motions are intact. Pupils are equal , round and
reactive to light. Neck: Supple , no lymphadenopathy.
Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs , rubs or
gallops , normal S1 , S2. JVP at 9 cm. Respiratory: Sparse
bibasilar crackles that cleared with cough. Abdomen: Soft ,
nontender and nondistended , bowel sounds present. Extremities:
Trace edema bilaterally , no clubbing or cyanosis. Pedal pulses
are palpable. Neuro: Cranial nerves II-XII are grossly intact.
There will be an addendum to this discharge summary , which will
include discharge medications and follow-up plans.
eScription document: 5-1521769 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: LAVERGNE , TAMEIKA
Attending: PETTINGER , DOUGLASS
Dictation ID 8276341
D: 7/18/05
T: 7/18/05