673650047 | PUO | 52446531 | | 975540 | 8/1/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/24/1995 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/2/1995
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: ACUTE CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: 1. ADULT ONSET DIABETES MELLITUS.
2. FOCAL MOTOR SEIZURE DISORDER.
3. CARDIOMYOPATHY.
4. CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
5. ASTHMA.
6. CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE.
7. GOUT.
8. IDIOPATHIC EOSINOPHILIA.
9. CHRONIC VENOSTASIS , STATUS POST
DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSIS.
10. RECURRENT CELLULITIS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 53 year old , white male
with insulin dependent , adult onset
diabetes mellitus , past alcohol abuse , cardiomyopathy , congestive
heart failure , and seizure disorder , who has been relatively
disabled due to shortness of breath , since 1992. The patient was
at home on the day of admission when he noted difficulty lighting a
cigarette with his right hand , as well as keeping it in his mouth.
The patient had difficulty speaking and his arm became
progressively weaker over the next several hours. The patient was
able to eat and drink with some difficulty. He noted word finding
difficulty , dysarthria , and arm weakness. The patient denied
headache , visual problems , loss of sensation , loss of
consciousness , urinary symptoms , diplopia , vertigo , nausea ,
vomiting , or difficulty ambulating. The patient was brought to the
Emergency Room by his son when his symptoms continued to worsen.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history is significant for
alcoholism , cardiomyopathy , congestive heart
failure , coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction ,
insulin dependent diabetes mellitus complicated by focal motor
seizures with hyperglycemia , deep venous thrombosis , venostasis
ulcers , cellulitis , diabetic retinopathy , idiopathic eosinophilia ,
asthma , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , gout ,
hepatosplenomegaly , and ascites.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Medications on admission include
hydroxyurea 500 mg p.o. q.a.m. ,
Colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q day , insulin
NPH 30 units q.a.m. and 20 units q.p.m. , Indocin 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.
p.r.n. gout , and Lasix 80 mg p.o. q day.
ALLERGIES: The patient has an allergy to Penicillin.
SOCIAL HISTORY: His social history is notable for occasional
alcohol use. Of note , his last use of alcohol was
one week prior to admission. The patient had previously used
alcohol quite seriously , with one case of beer q day times 33
years , quitting heavy alcohol use after his myocardial infarction.
The patient smokes tobacco one pack per day. He used cocaine for
three years but quit cocaine use three years prior to admission.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Review of systems is notable for very poor
exercise tolerance with a one block maximum
limit. The patient stops due to shortness of breath and
claudication. He also has two pillow orthopnea.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: This is a pleasant , obese , middle aged ,
53 year old , white male with a right facial
droop and in no acute distress. Temperature is 97 , pulse 84 , blood
pressure 126/70 , and O2 saturation is 99 percent on room air. His
heent examination was notable for no nystagmus and no diplopia.
His tongue was deviated to the right. His neck was supple with a
full range of motion. He had no bruits or lymphadenopathy. His
cardiac examination revealed tachycardia , regular rate and rhythm ,
S1 and S2 , and a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur heard loudest at the
axilla. His lung examination showed fine crackles at the left base
with diffuse wheezes. His abdomen was obese , soft , distended , and
non-tender. He had normoactive bowel sounds and liver span of 15
cm. His extremity examination was notable for chronic venostasis
changes , right greater than left , with 1+ peripheral pulses. His
neurological examination was notable for his being alert and
oriented times three. His ability to name was intact but he had
word finding difficulty. He had no right and left confusion. He
had downward droop of his right nasolabial fold , as well as a right
oral droop and a central seventh deficit. His tongue showed right
deviation. His sensory ability was intact overall. He had
decreased motor tone in his right upper extremity with 4/5 strength
in his right arm. His right arm lacked coordination and he had
difficulty initiating movement with his right arm but his strength
was still 4/5. His left upper extremity was 5/5 strength with good
coordination. His lower extremities were both 5/5.
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium was 140 , potassium 4.8 , chloride 104 ,
bicarbonate 19 , BUN 44 , creatinine 1.6 , and
glucose was 164. White count was 11 , 000 , hematocrit 43.3 , and
platelet count was 163 , 000. PT was 14.1 , INR 1.4 , PTT 29.1.
Urinalysis showed 20 to 25 hyaline casts with 3-5 red blood cells.
There were no white blood cells.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Medical Service
with a presumptive diagnosis of a left sided
stroke. A head CT was performed on hospital day number one but was
negative with no evidence of cerebral infarct or bleeding.
However , a follow up head CT on hospital day number three
demonstrated acute infarct in the left insular capsule and left
corona radiata. A carotid ultrasound was obtained on hospital day
number five which demonstrated bilateral carotid plaques with less
than 50 percent stenosis of both carotid arteries. Because of the
patient's history of diabetes and his cardiac history , especially
given his prior myocardial infarction , the patient was placed on a
ROMI protocol. The patient ruled out for a myocardial infarction
and he was given a cardiac echocardiogram on hospital day number
two. The echocardiogram demonstrated increased left ventricular
size with preserved systolic function and an ejection fraction of
65 percent. He had dilated left and right atria and he had
thickened mitral valve leaflets with 4+ mitral regurgitation , with
flow reversible into his pulmonary veins. He also had 3 to 4+
tricuspid regurgitation with slow reversal into the vena cava. He
had a trileaflet aortic valve with mild sclerosis but no
insufficiency or stenosis. He also had increased right heart size
with right heart pressures of 55 to 60 mm of mercury. He was noted
to have a trivial pericardial effusion. Of note , there was no
evidence of any thrombus in the heart. However , because of the
nature of his stroke , which was felt to be embolic by neurology , as
well as his enlarged atria. The patient was placed on IV Heparin
and he was then started on oral Coumadin for long-term
anticoagulation. The patient did very well after his stroke and
his original slurred speech improved markedly over the course of
his admission. He also regained full strength in his right arm ,
although he continued to have some decreased coordination in that
arm. The patient also demonstrated inability to swallow without
difficulty and an esophagogram with video analysis was performed on
hospital day number six , prior to his discharge. The video study
of his swallowing demonstrated that he had essentially normal
swallowing and he was cleared to go home on a regular diet. Of
note , his blood pressure tended to be low , around 100 to 110
systolic , while in the hospital , so his Lisinopril was discontinued
and he was given instructions that Lisinopril would be restarted by
his CHH attending after his discharge. His hydroxyurea was
increased from 500 mg to 1 gram q day. The patient did quite well
after his stroke and he was discharged home with services on
April , 1995.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: His discharge medications were
Colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lasix 40
mg p.o. q day , insulin NPH 30 units subcutaneous q.a.m. and 20
units subcutaneous q.p.m. , Atrovent inhaler two puffs q.i.d. p.r.n.
wheezing , multivitamins one capsule p.o. q day , Coumadin 4 mg p.o.
q.h.s. , and Indocin 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. gout pain.
DISPOSITION: DIET: The patient is on an ADA 1800 calorie diet.
ACTIVITY: He has no activity restrictions.
Dictated By: FRAN BUSSLER , M.D. OU51
Attending: BETHANIE A. LAVENTURE , M.D. KU4  YA549/6681
Batch: 14079 Index No. N4LFK01SRH D: 2/13/95
T: 10/10/95