171486426 | PUO | 43712082 | | 2232169 | 4/7/2006 12:00:00 AM | URINARY TRACT INFECTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/17/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/17/2006
ATTENDING: DEPSKY , GWYNETH MD
INTERIM SUMMARY
DATE OF DISCHARGE: To be determined.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Altered mental status.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Altered mental status.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:
1. Non-small cell lung cancer.
2. Right MCA embolic stroke.
3. Graves' disease.
4. Depression.
5. Attention deficit disorder.
6. Hypertension.
7. Asthma.
8. Temporal lobe epilepsy.
9. History of subclavian steal syndrome.
10. Urinary tract infection.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 64-year-old lady who has a
past medical history of right upper lobe lung cancer , status post
chemotherapy x2 cycles , as well as x-ray therapy. Her
chemotherapy has included VP-16 and cisplatin. She is status
post a large right middle cerebral artery stroke in 5/15 ,
status post a right carotid endarterectomy on 3/1/06 .  She has
been at the Centli Community Hospital Of since her last Totin Hospital And Clinic admission. She was there for stroke rehabilitation and
completed a ten-day course of vancomycin for a MRSA urinary tract
infection. She was found , on the day of admission , by her son to
be difficult to arouse. The patient was brought to the Stusri Medical Center by Emergency Services. The blood pressure was 66/44 , a
pulse of 100 , a respiratory rate that was normal and blood sugar
of 133. She denied complaints of chest pain , shortness of
breath , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis. She denied any other
pain.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Non-small cell lung cancer , diagnosed 6/8 , stage 3 ,
present in the right upper lung , status post neoadjuvant XRT and
two cycles of chemotherapy.
2. Right MC embolic stroke in 10/5 .
3. Status post right carotid endarterectomy on 3/1/06 .
4. Graves disease.
5. Depression.
6. Diabetes.
7. Hypertension.
8. Asthma.
9. Temporal lobe epilepsy.
10. History of subclavian steal syndrome.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1. Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy 30 years ago.
2. History of radioactive iodine for Graves' disease 30 years
ago.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Notable for being alert and
oriented x2 , nonconversant , angry and in pain. Neurological exam
was notable for a left upper femoral paralysis with increased
deep tendon reflex on the left , bilateral lower extremities with
2+ Achilles patellar reflexes. Her heart was tachycardic , but no
murmurs , rubs or gallops. Lungs were clear to auscultation
except for bibasilar rales. Her abdomen was full , nontender and
nondistended. Her extremities had no cyanosis or edema and had
2+ DP pulses. In the emergency room , her pulse was 100 and her
blood pressure was 148/60. She was somnolent. She had 1 gm of
vancomycin , magnesium and Levaquin 500 mg.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin , for which she has a hive reaction;
valproic acid , sulfa drugs. Demerol causes hypotension.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Mechanical soft diet , aspirin 81 mg ,
baclofen 5 mg t.i.d. , B12 1000 mg daily , iron sulfate 325 mg
daily , Cymbalta 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Neurontin 100 mg b.i.d. ,
Lamictal 200 mg b.i.d. , Prilosec 20 daily , levothyroxine ,
Glucophage 500 once a day , Reglan 10 once a day , niacin 500 once
a day , Senna 2 tabs b.i.d. , Zocor 20 mg once a day , Nicoderm
patch , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lopressor 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
lidoderm 5% patch to the low back. She also had p.r.n. of
Tylenol , ducolox , Mylanta , lactulose , Seroquel 100 mg , prednisone
50 mg , and Dilaudid 1 mg.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Divorced with two children. No alcohol use
recently.
FAMILY HISTORY: Father died of a MI at 73. Her mother died in
her 80s of emphysema.
LABORATORY DATA: The patient had a creatinine of 1 , her ALT was
25 , AST was 35 , her hematocrit was 33 , her white count was 6.6 ,
and her platelets were 241 , 000. She had normal differential.
Her albumin was 3.5. Her urinalysis was dark , with 3+
leukoesterase , negative nitrates , greater than 200 white blood
cells per high peripheral , 2-4 red blood cells per high
peripheral , 1+ bacteria. Her EKG showed a sinus rhythm of 100.
Her left bundle branch block with a QTc of 500 , but no change
compared to baseline.
Her head CT showed an old right middle cerebral artery implant.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for initial
presentation with somnolence and altered mental status with one
hypotensive blood pressure by EMS , but subsequently no
hypotension in the absence of fluid resuscitation. Her urine
culture appeared to indicate an infection , and so she was covered
with antibiotics initially. It was also determined that she had
a significant polypharmacy and enumerable sedating medications at
her rehabilitation and there was suspicion that the medications
contributed to her initial presentation of somnolence and altered
mental status.
1. Infectious disease: The patient was initially treated with
vancomycin for a presumed repeated MRSA UTI. However , her urine
culture did not grow any bacteria , it only drew out yeast. Thus ,
she was transitioned over to a ciprofloxacin 700 mg p.o. b.i.d.
regime for a total of 12 days for a presumed urinary tract
infection.
2. F/E/N: She was tolerating oral food and medications and a
Nutrition consult was obtained. She had calorie counts which
showed adequate intake. She did not have any other metabolic
abnormality that required correction.
3. Cardiovascular: The patient's primary cardiovascular
abnormality was a prolonged QTc which occurred in the setting of
prior use of Haldol and other antipsychotics for behavioral
modification. Her QTc was monitored with serial EKGs. The
longest it had reached was 530 ms. Haldol was discontinued in
order to preserve the QTc. In addition , she was given some
amounts of Seroquel and her QTc was continued to be monitored.
4. Heme/Oncology: The patient has a history of stage III
non-small cell lung cancer status post XRT and chemotherapy and
is followed by her outpatient oncologist , as well as the
outpatient psychosocial oncology social worker , as well as the
psychosocial oncology physician whose name is Gaylene Faniel .
5. Neurological: The patient is status post both a large right
MCA stroke , as well as a right-sided carotid endarterectomy from
a previous admission. Her neurological deficits are consistent
with her prior neurological deficits. Specifically , they include
a left-sided hemiparesis , as well as agnosia on the left side.
Her mental status included intermittent disorientation. She was
generally at her best , alert and oriented to herself , as well as
her age , as well as her location in the Pagham University Of .  However , she would intermittently loose track of where
her location was and believed that she was in Teran Skinver Careteher Hospital , not in
the hospital. She was also intermittently confused. She also is
complicated , given her histories of seizures and stroke. It was
considered initially that her altered mental status was due to
polypharmacy. However , her sedating medications were
discontinued including her Reglan was discontinued as well as her
baclofen , Dilaudid and trazodone. Her Cymbalta was continued per
the recommendations of the Psychiatry consult. The psychiatric
consultants also suggested a one-to-one sitter. At no time was
the patient actively suicidal or homicidal. It was also later
decided that her Dilaudid would be discontinued. In addition ,
her standing Seroquel was made p.r.n. In addition , the
patient's family also suggested that the patient's base mental
status did not improve despite removing all the medications. At
this point , a Neurology consult was obtained. This Neurology
consult is pending at the time of this dictation and will be
reported in a later dictation. Given the patient's history of
complex seizures and olfactory hallucinations , she was continued
on her Lamictal , as well as her Cymbalta , which was for her
history of depression.
6. Pain: The patient's pain in her left hand existed and she
was treated with tramadol and Tylenol for this pain. She could
not specifically describe this pain.
7. Endocrine: The patient was maintained on Novolog sliding
scale for diabetes. She was also continued on a replacement dose
levothyroxine for her history of Graves' and a history of
radioiodine ablation. For behavioral modification , as well as
for intermittent agitation and disorientation , the patient was
maintained on p.r.n. Seroquel 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , as well as
Zydis 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. This was titrated from standing to
p.r.n. over the course of her hospitalization in order to try to
decrease any sedating medications that may be altering her
alertness and orientation.
NOTE: This dictation will be addended at a later date with
discharge medications , as well as further hospital course and the
patient's neurological state , as well as any follow up that is to
be planned.
eScription document: 1-7702322 SSSten Tel
Dictated By: SCHUNEMAN , ELLENA
Attending: DEPSKY , GWYNETH
Dictation ID 5237737
D: 11/22/06
T: 11/22/06