256580457 | PUO | 49104881 | | 440843 | 1/12/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/12/1994 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/25/1994
PRINCIPAL COMPLAINT: SPINAL STENOSIS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 54 year-old female
who complained of lower back pain and
bilateral leg pain. She noted that in , October of 1993 , she had
the onset of some low back pain , and in October of 1993 , it went
down into her lower extremities. The pain is currently in the
lower back and bilateral buttocks , to the bilateral knees , and all
aspects of her legs below the knee. She reports diminished
sensation of the anterior aspect of her leg on the right side , but
this has only occurred once on the left side. She has no motor
complaints and denies any bowel or bladder dysfunction. Her pain
is specifically made worse with walking. She cannot walk even as
far as a block before she has to stop and sit. She also
demonstrates transition pain when she gets up , in and out of a bed
or chair. She has diabetes , and has been on insulin for eight
years. In the past , for her back , her treatment has consisted of
Motrin , and three epidural steroid injections. Two were done in
October .  The second obtained approximately 80% relief for three
months. The last one was of no help whatsoever. Her x-rays on
review shows that she has degenerative spondylolisthesis at L4-L5.
Her CT scan and MRI scan both demonstrate the presence of a slip at
L4-L5. There is rather marked L4 neural foraminal narrowing
bilaterally , with only some narrowing of the lateral recesses of
the canal. The distribution of her pain sounds most likely to be
of L4 nerve root.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for insulin dependent diabetes
mellitus with retinopathy , atypical anxiety
disorder , aortic stenosis with history of rheumatic fever , and
glaucoma in the left eye , and congenital nystagmus , and amblyopia.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Left knee arthrotomy; right ankle open
reduction , internal fixation; right carpal
tunnel , and cervical laminectomy.
ALLERGIES: Elavil , Zomax and Naprosyn.
MEDICATIONS: Insulin , NPH , 8 units subcu q. day; Prozac 10 mg
p.o. q. day , and Timolol .5% , one GTT O.S. b.i.d.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is slightly obese , and stands
with a normal alignment. She can reach her
hands down to her ankles. Extension is about 20 degrees , and
causes bilateral posterior SI and leg pain. Reflexes are all 3+ in
the lower extremities. The toes are upgoing and in clonus
bilaterally. This spasticity has been noted in the past by Dr.
Lubow , CHH neurologist , who followed her for quite a long time
for this problem. Romberg exam is negative. Pulses are 1+
dorsalis pedis , and trace in the posterior tibial bilaterally.
Detailed sensory/motor exam of the lower extremities reveals no
deficit , but she does have significant spasticity. Indeed , it is
actually difficult to test her EHL and anterior tibial with her
knees extended , as she has marked plantar flexion and tone in that
region with the knees flexed. The patient is able to demonstrate
good EHL and anterior tib function. Straight leg was negative
bilaterally. Hip range of motion is normal and pain free.
Patrick's test was negative. Femoral stress test was negative. Of
note , the patient had an old medial left knee scar surgery. The
patient was afebrile. Vital signs stable. HEENT was within normal
limits. Lungs were clear to auscultation. Heart was regular rate
and rhythm with a II/VI systolic murmur , and no radiation to the
carotid. Abdomen was soft , non-distended , non-tender. No
splenomegaly was noted.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient underwent posterior decompression
with L4-L5 and pedicle screw fixation with iliac
crest bone graft , as well as a discectomy at L4-L5 , and complete
foraminotomies of L4 root bilaterally. The patient received
approximately 6 liters of lactated Ringer's , one liter of Hespan ,
500 cc of albumin , 3 units of packed red blood cells , 2 units of
cell saver. Estimated blood loss was 2000 cc. The patient did
well postoperatively , with her physical therapy , and mobilizing
well. Of note , the patient did spike a fever to 102.2; however ,
her workup was only significant for atelectasis on her chest x-ray ,
and trace leukocytes in her urine , with cultures being negative.
Of note , the temperature was associated with dysuria. Thus , the
patient was started on Bactrim , one p.o. b.i.d. times 10 days. The
patient did well in physical therapy , and was discharged on
postoperative day five. The patient is discharged to home with
Selo Ksa Community Hospital Of .
DISPOSITION: Discharged to home with full Selo Ksa Community Hospital Of .
FOLLOW UP: The patient will follow up with Dr. Tappeiner at CHH .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Niferex 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Bactrim DS ,
one p.o. b.i.d. times 10 days , Colace
100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Timoptic .5 , one drop O.S. b.i.d. , NPH 8 units
subcu , Prozac 10 mg p.o. q. day.
Dictated By: MATHEW STAUTZ , M.D. YK2
Attending: KYLEE D. TAPPEINER , M.D. BN33  JI158/0202
Batch: 897 Index No. VCMC8S9S8A D: 9/26/94
T: 9/26/94