878696591 | PUO | 75926089 | | 331833 | 6/28/1998 12:00:00 AM | RENAL FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/13/1998 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/6/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: RIGHT GROIN ABSCESS.
PROBLEM LIST: ( 1 ) Status post renal transplantation , living
related donor April 1997 , ( 2 ) hypertension , ( 3 )
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , ( 4 ) pulmonary hypertension ,
( 5 ) hyperthyroidism , ( 6 ) hyperparathyroidism , ( 7 )
hypertriglyceridemia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 42-year-old white
man who presents with complaints of
fever to 103 and chills , a productive cough and groin pain lasting
three days. At age three , the patient was diagnosed with Wilms'
tumor on the left , which was resected and subsequently treated with
wide field radiation. The patient , thereafter developed
radiation-induced tyroid cancer , at which time he underwent
subtotal thyroidectomy. In addition , the patient developed
radiation nephritis in his remaining right kidney and pulmonary
fibrosis. In April of 1997 , the patient underwent living related
donor renal transplantation for chronic renal failure. The patient
was at that point CMV antigen negative , however , the donor kidney
was CMV antigen positive. The patient underwent an uncomplicated
transplantation , however , the postoperative course was complicated
by cytomegalovirus infection , presenting with diarrhea and
requiring hospitalization in February 1997. The patient was treated
with ganciclovir and subsequently maintained on Cytovene. The
patient remained healthy until August 1997 , at which time he was
again admitted for a recrudescence of his cytomegalovirus
infection. In August 1997 , the patient presented with a
three-day history of fever to approximately 105 , anorexia , dry
cough , fatigue , headache , dizziness , sweats , nausea and dyspnea on
exertion. The patient was , at that point , treated with
ganciclovir , however his fevers persisted and he was discharged
after five days of therapy. At that time , the patient's CMV
antigen test was negative , however , his shell vial cultures , both
returned as positive. The patient was maintained on ganciclovir
therapy in the post hospital course until April , 1997 , at
which time his peripherally inserted catheter was removed.
Subsequently , the patient has been healthy for approximately four
weeks , then on June , 1998 , he noted a groin lump on the
right. From June , 1998 , he noted feeling
worse with fevers and chills , and a productive cough beginning on
September , 1998. The patient's groin lump , subsequently , became
painful , and he passed several loose bowel movements.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: ( 1 ) Wilms' tumor , ( 2 ) status post left
nephrectomy with wide field radiation
therapy , ( 3 ) NCH renal disease status post living related donor
renal transplant from father in April 1997 , ( 4 ) hypertension , ( 5 )
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , ( 6 ) pulmonary hypertension ,
( 7 ) hyperthyroid , ( 8 ) hyperparathyroid , ( 9 ) hypertriglyceridemia ,
( 10 ) gout , ( 11 ) CMV infection in February 1997 and August 1997 ,
( 12 ) history of perirectal abscess , ( 13 ) history of atrial
fibrillation spontaneously converted in October 1998.
ALLERGIES: NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Synthroid 150 mcg q.d. , NPH insulin 14
units q.a.m. , regular insulin p.r.n. ,
nadolol 80 mg q.d. , Prednisone 10 mg q.d. , Neoral 100 mg b.i.d. ,
CellCept 1 g b.i.d. , Axid 150 mg q.d. , Lasix 80 mg p.o. p.r.n. ,
Coumadin 4 mg q.d.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives at home with his wife and has
four children. He denies alcohol or tobacco use.
FAMILY HISTORY: No coronary artery disease. No history of cancer.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is a pleasant , but ill-appearing
man in some respiratory distress , lying in
bed. Temperature is 103 , heart rate 70 , blood pressure 160/80 ,
respirations 26 , oxygen saturation 90% on 4 L oxygen. HEENT
examination was notable for cushingoid facies and flushing was
evident. No lymphadenopathy. The neck was supple , mucous
membranes moist and sclera were anicteric. Chest examination
revealed crackles on the right to half way up. Heart examination
revealed a noisy precordium with a prominent T2 and a 2/6 systolic
ejection murmur. Abdominal examination was negative. Extremity
examination revealed some slight swelling of the lower extremities.
Cutaneous examination was notable for evidence of thin subcutaneous
tissues and development of a buffalo hump.
LABORATORY DATA: White count of 11.3 with 46 polys , 36
lymphocytes and 7 bands , hematocrit was 32.4 and
platelets were 143 , 000. Coagulation studies revealed a prothrombin
time of 15.8 and an INR of 1.8. Electrolytes were within normal
limits , blood urea nitrogen was 39 , creatinine was 2.5 , glucose was
85 , calcium 10.2. Liver function tests revealed an alkaline
phosphatase of 342 , total protein was 7.9 with an albumin of 3.9.
Cholesterol was 194 , triglycerides were 249. Cyclosporine level
was 303.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. INFECTIOUS DISEASES: Surgery was consulted and the right groin
abscess was drained and a wick was inserted. This wound was
dressed and continued care was preformed by nursing staff. Blood
cultures on admission revealed no growth and on hospital day two
revealed no growth. Wound cultures revealed few coagulase ,
negative staph. Antibiotics were initiated , first vancomycin ,
gentamicin and Flagyl were initiated , however gentamycin was
subsequently discontinued and ceftazidime was initiated. The
patient had one fever spike on hospital day one to 101.9. The
patient subsequently had no fever spikes , however , on hospital day
three Levaquin was initiated and intravenous antibiotics were
continued until hospital day four. At that point , the patient had
been afebrile for 48 hours and the decision was made to switch the
patient to oral antibiotics , including Levaquin and Augmentin. The
patient continued to defervesce , his breathing improved , the pain
in his right groin improved , dressing changes were continued and
the patient remained afebrile for more than 24 hours after
initiating oral antibiotics.
2. CARDIOVASCULAR: The patient has a history of hypertension and
has been maintained on nadolol , recently requiring a doubling in
his dose from 40 mg q.d. to 80 mg q.d. He was admitted and placed
on 80 mg q.d. of nadolol , however , his blood pressures continued to
run up to 170 systolic and up to 110 diastolic. At that time , the
decision was made to initiate a second antihypertensive medication
and nifedipine XL was chosen. He was maintained for two days at 30
mg on this medication and his blood pressures subsequently
stabilized at 130/80. The patient also carries a diagnosis of
pulmonary hypertension , presumed from the February 1997 , results
of his echocardiogram. These results revealed a pressure gradient
in the pulmonary arterial system , and on this admission a
subsequent echocardiogram was obtained to assess left ventricular
function and his pulmonary vascular status. The results of this
study revealed 2+ tricuspid regurgitation and 1+ mitral
regurgitation , unchanged from prior studies and a pulmonary
arterial pressure of approximately 45 mmHg , also not notably
changed.
3. PULMONARY: On admission , the patient reported a productive
cough , in addition to difficulty breathing. This was evaluated
with a chest radiogram , which revealed possibility of a right sided
pulmonary process , corroborated on examination by evidence of
crackles half way up. The decision was made to rule the patient
out for another flare of his CMV infection. Studies for CMV
antigen and CMV from the buffy coat were sent and the final results
revealed a positive CMV antigen , but a negative buffy coat. The
patient's pulmonary status improved on oxygen and on intravenous
antibiotics. A induced sputum sample was obtained and studies were
sent for atypical organisms including CPT , fungi , in addition to
bacteria. All these studies were negative. In addition ,
Legionella antigen was also negative. Prior to discharge , the
patient's pulmonary status had returned to baseline and had
entirely resolved.
4. GASTROINTESTINAL: On admission , the patient reported multiple
loose bowel movements. However , in his hospital course this did
not continue to be an issue. The patient also regained his
appetite during the hospital course.
5. HEMATOLOGIC: The patient was continued on his anticoagulation
for history of atrial fibrillation at 4 mg daily with an INR
remaining in his goal parameters , which were set at 1.6-2.0. The
patient however , has recently spontaneously converted to sinus
rhythm and throughout his hospital course remained in sinus rhythm
with continuous monitoring.
6. RENAL: On admission , the patient's creatinine level was 2.5
and remained stable throughout his hospital course. His
cyclosporine level was 303 on admission , on hospital day four , a
level of 700 was obtained , however , this determined from a history
that this level had been drawn shortly after the patient had taken
the cyclosporine. During his hospital course , vancomycin levels
were followed. These levels reached a maximum of 19.8 on hospital
day four , at which time intravenous antibiotics were discontinued.
7. ENDOCRINE. The patient carries a history of multiple endocrine
issues including hypercalcemia and hyperparathyroidism , diabetes
mellitus , hyperthyroidism on thyroid replacement therapy following
subtotal thyroidectomy , and possibility of mineral corticoid
deficiency. The Endocrine Team was consulted. Thyroid studies and
parathyroid studies were sent and revealed a TSH of 0.02 , a T4 of
6.0 , a THPR of 1.47. On discharge , the patient's parathyroid 1 , 25
vitamin D and 25 vitamin D were still pending. The Endocrine Team
recommended decreasing his Synthroid dose to a level of 125 mcg
daily. In addition , they recommended a bone densitometry study for
evaluation of his bone mass following chronic maintenance on the
steroid therapy and a history of hyperparathyroidism. The team
thought that the patient's previous question of a mineral corticoid
deficiency was likely due to his prior Cozaar therapy. They did
not fell it was necessary at this point to preform a cortizone
stimulation study or to further assess this possibility of a
mineral corticoid deficiency.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Augmentin 250/125 mg t.i.d. , Levaquin 250
mg q.d. , CellCept 500 mg b.i.d. , Neoral 100
mg b.i.d. , Prednisone 10 mg q.d. , Synthroid 125 mcg q.d. , INP
insulin 14 units subcu q.a.m. , regular insulin subcu p.r.n. , Axid
150 mg q.d. , nadolol 80 mg q.d. , nifedipine XL 30 mg q.d. , Coumadin
4 mg q.d. , iron sulfate 300 mg q.d.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
DISPOSITION: To home.
FOLLOW-UP: 1. Bone densitometry September , 1998.
2. Dr. Marylyn Derden March , 1998.
3. Dr. Denier in October .
Dictated By: REYES MCPECK , M.D.
Attending: WEI N. PILLING , M.D. NF7  YB160/0189
Batch: 51435 Index No. R6DJVP5LXR D: 1/17/98
T: 9/7/98