924868217 | PUO | 34874777 | | 9987296 | 3/25/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/25/2003 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: GWYNETH ALMEDA DEPSKY MD
Ms. Debrita is a 90+-year-old woman with a history of coronary
artery disease including a non ST elevation MI in 4/13
medically managed , congestive heart failure with an ejection
fraction of 25% and severe aortic stenosis with a valve area of
1.0 who was transferred from the Norap Valley Hospital with shortness
of breath several days after discharge from that hospital where
she was treated for , a multilevel pneumonia and CHF exacerbation.
She had been hospitalized at P Therford Hospital where she was treated for
pneumonia and after treatment had returned to her rehabilitation
facility/skilled nursing facility where she was not eating and
was found to be very tachypneic and diaphoretic and tachycardiac
for the three days prior to admission here. The night prior to
admission , she had been readmitted to Norap Valley Hospital where she
was found to have a worsening CHF exacerbation with symptomatic
bradycardia with heart rate in the 20s. The patient received
diuresis , had a chest MRA to rule out pulmonary embolism , which
was negative and was transferred to Pagham University Of
for telemetry. The bradycardia was thought to have been from a
recent increase in the patient's Toprol XL dose. On admission ,
the patient was afebrile. Temperature 96.5 , pulse in the 70s and
80s , pressure 140/80 , breathing a 100% on four liters. Exam
significant for an awake , alert , pleasant older women , very hard
of hearing , decreased breath sounds with rhonchi right greater
than left and decreased breath sounds in the right middle lobe ,
poor inspiratory effort. Exam also significant for a hard
systolic ejection murmur , crescendo decrescendo heard best at the
right upper sternal border radiating to the carotids , also
audible at the apex. Her JVP was at 12 cm. She had no lower
extremity edema. Her labs were significant for a creatinine of
2.7 , a slightly elevated dedimer at P Therford Hospital , a chest x-ray that
showed a right middle lobe pneumonia that was resolving ,
cardiomegaly.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Cardiovascular: There was no evidence of acute ischemia. She
had a small elevation of her troponins in the morning after
admission thought secondary perhaps to CHF exacerbation or
chronic renal insufficiency. She was restarted on a very low
dose of Lopressor keeping atropine at her bedside in case of
symptomatic bradycardia. She did have a heart rate occasionally
in the 40s during this hospitalization , but was asymptomatic
throughout. In terms of her rhythm , in addition to the
asymptomatic bradycardia , she did have several runs of
non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. These diminished with
repletion of magnesium and again were asymptomatic. The
electrophysiology was consulted and they did not feel that any
intervention was indicated given the asymptomatic nature of her
arrhythmias. In terms of her congestive heart failure
exacerbation was thought to be the primary reason for her
tachypnea and dyspnea. She was diuresed gently given her aortic
stenosis and tolerated well a net fluid loss of 500 to a 1000 cc
per day with great increase in her comfort breathing. Notably
she never had an increased oxygen requirement even when
tachypneic. We will do a dry weight before her discharge and
send her out on a dose of Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. with a dry
weight to be followed at the skilled nursing facility. She will
also have a follow up appointment with Dr. Cole Aini at
Norap Valley Hospital .
2. Infectious disease: On chest x-ray , the patient has a
persistent right middle lobe process an on the second day of her
hospitalization had increasing tachypnea , was found to be fluid
overloaded and was gently diuresed as mentioned earlier. Because
a recurrence of her pneumonia cannot be ruled out , we will
complete a 14-day course of levofloxacin and Flagyl , which was
added for the concern of aspiration to add anaerobic coverage.
3. Renal: The patient has chronic renal insufficiency. The
patient's creatinine has improved during her hospitalization and
is currently 2.0. We have replaced her magnesium and put her on
a small dose of daily K-Dur 10 mEq per day to compensate for her
Lasix diuresis.
4. Neuro: The patient was seen by the speech and swallow
service. Their recommendations were mechanical , soft , solid diet
with thin liquids , out of bed at all meals.
The patient will be discharged on Flagyl to finish a 14-day
course , levofloxacin to finish a 14-day course. The patient's
levofloxacin should be taken until 1/29/03 and the patient's
Flagyl should be taken until 8/30/03 .  The patient will also be
discharged on the salicylic acid 81 mg , Phoslo 667 mg t.i.d. ,
Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , heparin was given for prophylaxis as an
inpatient , but she should be treated according to NH policies ,
lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
multivitamin , simvastatin 20 mg q.h.s. , K-Dur 10 mEq x1 p.o.
q.d. , and Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.
She will be discharged to the NH in good condition.
Thank you for the opportunity to care for this lovely patient.
eScription document: 5-6603422 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: BUCCHERI , FELICE
Attending: DEPSKY , GWYNETH ALMEDA
Dictation ID 4200224
D: 9/9/03
T: 9/9/03