010700797 | PUO | 27527229 | | 1398265 | 8/21/2006 12:00:00 AM | RESPIRATORY FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/9/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/13/2006
ATTENDING: MARCOTT , DESIRAE M.D.
SERVICE: General Medical Service.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Aspiration pneumonia.
PROBLEMS: Diabetes , atrial fibrillation , CHF , acute renal
failure , thrombocytopenia , elevated LFTs , agitation , aspiration
and rheumatoid arthritis.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Eisenzimmer is a 71-year-old woman
with severe obesity who was admitted with hypercarbic respiratory
failure from a rehabilitation facility for rapid shallow
breathing. On arrival in the emergency department , she was hypoxic and
hypoglycemic , responding to fluids , intubation , and transfer to the MICU. She
was subsequently transferred
out of the medical ICU to the general medical floor. Of note , she had a recent
admission to Pande Memorial Hospital for sepsis secondary to
cellulitis and pneumonia , enjoying that admission she developed
ATN secondary to antibiotic use. ROS on arrival to the medicine floor is not
possible , as the patient is disoriented
( at baseline ). She does report low back pain ( chronic ) , is moaning at baseline
( secondary to stroke/aphasia ) , but appears in NAD.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. COPD , for which she uses BiPAP at home and no oxygen.
2. CHF , secondary to diastolic dysfunction. Ejection fraction
is 55% with no wall motion abnormalities. She does have a
history of elevated pulmonary artery pressures of 57 above rate
reduction.
3. Obstructive sleep apnea with Pickwickian syndrome.
4. Hypertension.
5. Sick sinus syndrome , status post pacemaker implantation in
2000.
6. Atrial fibrillation on Coumadin.
7. Angina , status post septal MI.
8. Hyperlipidemia.
9. Diabetes type 2 , recently increased to insulin while on
stress dose steroids at her last hospitalization.
10. Osteoporosis.
11. Rheumatoid arthritis.
12. GERD.
13. Cellulitis , with a recent pneumonia.
14. Thrombocytopenia.
15. Iron deficiency.
16. CVA in 1998 with expressive aphasia.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Fluconazole , prednisone 20 mg p.o.
daily , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. daily , aspirin , atorvastatin , Imdur ,
Lasix , Norvasc , lisinopril , atenolol , Advair , DuoNebs ,
multivitamin , folate , calcium , Lispro sliding scale , NPH insulin ,
senna , Colace and oxycodone.
ALLERGIES: None.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her husband who is her
Healthcare Proxy.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , temperature 99.1 , heart rate
69 , blood pressure 149/77 with an oxygen saturation of 99% on
100% nonrebreather. Morbidly obese. HEENT examination is significant for fixed
left pupil secondary to surgery , with a pinpoint right pupil.
JVP cannot be assessed secondary to obesity. Pulmonary exam is
significant for diffuse rhonchi with wheezing. Cardiovascular
examination significant for a 2/6 systolic murmur at the left
lower sternal border. Extremities reveal 2+ pitting edema with
2+ pulses.
LABORATORY STUDIES: On admission were significant for sodium of
149 , BUN of 49 , creatinine of 2.3 , glucose of 21 , white count of 13 , hematocrit
of 34 , platelets of 63 , 000 , an alkaline phosphatase of 284 , ALT
of 82 , total bilirubin of 4.0 , direct bilirubin of 2.0 , albumin
of 2.5 and an INR of 2.1. CXR reveals a RLL pneumonia.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Aspiration pneumonia. The patient was admitted with a right
lower lobe pneumonia. She grew MRSA in her sputum and was
treated with vancomycin , levofloxacin and Flagyl. She did well
and was extubated on her first hospital day after arriving in the
MICU. However , she continued to aspirate and failed a bedside
swallow study in the MICU. She was stabilized and transported to
the medicine floor on overnight BiPAP. She again failed bedside
swallow evaluation with thin liquids , and was therefore started
on a very conservative pudding thick puree diet. She did
subsequently aspirate on secretions ( she was not eating at that
time ) and became acutely hypoxic with an ABG that showed a pH of
7.45 , pCO2 of 48 and a PO2 of 36. Her family was brought in and
it was explained that the patient was recurrently aspirating and
was critically ill. A family meeting was held , where it was
decided that the patient would be DNR/DNI , and every attempt
would be made to bring the patient home with hospice. She
actually stabilized from her acute event and was able to wean
from BiPAP to 3 L oxygen nasal cannula. Nevertheless , the
patient's family understood that her respiratory status remained
tenuous and that she would likely re-aspirate. She was
discharged home with hospice services per family request.
2. CHF. The patient diuresed greater than 26 liters during this
admission. Much of this diuresis was without pharmacological
intervention , although she did receive minimal Lasix support. At
the time of discharge , she was tending towards euvolemic or dry and was
not on any Lasix. She was felt to be in the polyuric phase of
ATN , which was resolving.
3. Diabetes. The patient was discharged on insulin NPH and a
sliding scale regular insulin. Her doses have been decreased
because she was found to be hypoglycemic on admission.
4. Atrial fibrillation on Coumadin. Given the patient's history
of bleeding ( she had a GI bleeding while in the MICU in the
setting of an INR of 2.0 ) , Coumadin was held. On review with the
medical team , it was felt that the risk of stroke was far
outweighed by the risk of a significant bleed. Therefore , the
patient is not discharged on Coumadin.
5. Acute renal failure. The patient was treated with
antibiotics prior to this admission , and developed ATN secondary
to that medication. Of note , her urine was positive for
eosinophils on admission. At the time of discharge , the
patient's creatinine was 2.1 , which in part was due to ATN and
also due to significant diuresis. Her baseline creatinine is 1.7
and she is currently trending downwards.
6. Thrombocytopenia. The patient is noted to have a chronic
thrombocytopenia. This was exacerbated with heparin products ,
which were discontinued. She did require platelet transfusions
for a platelet count of 34 in the setting of acute bright red
blood per rectum. However , her platelet count was stable at
greater than 125 on discharge.
7. LFT abnormalities. A right upper quadrant ultrasound was
within normal limits , although was of poor quality given the
patient's obese body habitus. She does have a possible
cholestatic picture , but the patient had no other symptoms.
Given her DNR/DNI status with hospice services pending , no
further workup was performed.
8. Agitation. The patient is , at baseline , mourning and
disoriented , but responsive. She did require Haldol and Ativan
p.r.n. , but also did well with 1 to 1 interaction. Morphine was
adequate for pain control.
9. Speech and swallow evaluation. The patient failed several
speech and swallow evaluations. She is put on a pudding thick
puree diet , but this is palliative , as she will very likely
aspirate even on this diet.
10. Rheumatoid arthritis. The patient was continued on
prednisone 20 mg q.a.m.
DISCHARGE EXAMINATION: Temperature 96 , respiratory rate 22 ,
pulse 68 , blood pressure 130/60 , oxygen saturation 99% on 3
liters. Exam is notable for morbid obesity , coarse breath
sounds , right greater than left , large ecchymosis of varying
stages particularly at subcutaneous injection sites , and baseline
disorientation , which is not different from the patient's usual
mental status.
LABORATORY STUDIES ON DISCHARGE: White count 11 , hematocrit 33 ,
platelets 214 , 000 , glucose 134 , sodium 148 , chloride 111 , BUN 40
and creatinine 2.1.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg q.2 h. p.r.n. ,
Pepcid 20 mg p.o. at bedtime , insulin NPH 4 units SC b.i.d. ,
insulin regular sliding scale , Ativan 2 to 4 mg p.o. q.6 h.
p.r.n. anxiety , metoprolol 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , prednisone 20 mg
p.o. q.a.m. , morphine immediate release 15 to 30 mg p.o. q.3 h.
p.r.n. pain , Norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o.
every other day for a total of two weeks , miconazole 2% topical
powder b.i.d. , DuoNeb q.6 h. and Dulcolax rectal suppository 10
mg PR daily.
DISPOSITION: The patient is discharged to home in very poor
condition. She is discharged with hospice services for end of
life care.
eScription document: 3-6452874 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: MCCORD , ADAH
Attending: MARCOTT , DESIRAE
Dictation ID 8689963
D: 2/10/06
T: 2/10/06