109080323 | PUO | 62974095 | | 375970 | 2/10/2000 12:00:00 AM | RULE OUT MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/18/2000 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/20/2000
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
OTHER PROBLEMS: Diabetes , asthma , smoking , GI bleeding of unknown
etiology , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 71-year-old man with
coronary artery disease with risk
factors of diabetes , hypertension , cigarette smoking , and a report
of hypercholesterolemia. The patient has reported a history of
angina over the past several years which was well controlled by
nitroglycerin. In October of 1997 , he was able to exercise 3
minutes of the Bruce protocol with maximum heart rate of 79 and a
blood pressure of over 80 with no evidence of ischemia on EKG. An
echo at that time was also normal. About a month prior to
admission , the patient began experiencing progressive chest pain
which seemed related to exertion. He described the chest pain as
burning and radiating to his neck. The patient has a history of
gastroesophageal reflux , and was referred for EGD , but this test
was postponed until a further workup of the patient's chest pain.
At baseline he reports exercise-related chest pain everyday as well as
occasional chest pain at rest relieved by about 3-5 nitroglycerin. These
episodes are associated with diaphoresis , shortness of breath , but no nausea or
vomiting.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for coronary artery disease ,
gastritis , GERD , GI bleed in February of
1999 , nephrolithiasis , diabetes , history of atrial fibrillation ,
asthma , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Cardizem , Klonopin , aspirin , Prilosec ,
Paxil , nitroglycerin , p.r.n. , Azmacort ,
albuterol , Mevacor , iron , NPH.
ALLERGIES: None known.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Afebrile , pulse 71 , blood pressure 107/53 ,
satting 97%on room air. Pertinent positive
include occasional bilateral wheezes on lung exam. CARDIOVASCULAR:
Regular rate , normal S1 and S2 , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops.
NECK: No evidence of JVD and no carotid bruits. ABDOMEN: Benign.
EXTREMITIES: No cyanosis , clubbing or edema , and dorsalis pedis
and posterior tibialis pulses were 2+ bilaterally. RECTAL:
Significant for guaiac-positive dark brown stool.
ADMISSION LABORATORY: Significant for hematocrit of 29.4 , with an
MCV of 78 , cardiac enzymes were negative on
admission.
EKG on admission showed normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 70. No
significant ST or T wave abnormalities.
PROCEDURES: Cardiac catheterization status post right coronary
artery stent was performed during the patient's
hospital stay. No complications resulted from this procedure.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Cardiovascular. On February , the patient had an exercise
treadmill test Bruce protocol. He exercised for 2 minutes and 30
seconds achieving a maximum heart rate of 104 with maximum blood
pressure of 130/90 , however , the test was terminated at low
exercise level for shortness of breath an leg fatigue. No EKG
changes were noted during this test. Since this test was nondiagnostic , the
patient was scheduled for a dobutamine MIBI. This test showed a significant
area of ischemia in the inferior and apical regions of the heart. An
echocardiogram performed also showed an area of hypokinesis in the inferior
region of the heart. Cardiac catheterization performed on February showed
100% occlusion of the LAD and 75% occlusion of the right coronary
artery with stent placement. Prior to stent placement , Mr. Eisenzimmer
had two episodes of chest pain in the hospital which resolved with
nitroglycerin. He had no chest pain following stent placement. He also had
transient episodes of atrial fibrillation/flutter.
2. Gastrointestinal. Mr. Eisenzimmer was noted to guaiac positive on
admission. He also reported some symptoms consistent with
gastroesophageal reflux. While in inpatient , his Prilosec was
increased at 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. He was followed by GI while in
inpatient and it was recommended that he have a repeat EGD and
colonoscopy as an outpatient.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Albuterol inhaler 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d.
p.r.n. wheezing , enteric coated aspirin
325 mg p.o. q.d. , Klonopin 0.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin NPH 25 units
subq b.i.d. , Mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
nitroglycerin p.r.n. chest pain , Prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Azmacort 4 puffs inhaled b.i.d. , Paxil 20 mg p.o. q.d. , clopidogrel
75 mg p.o. q.d.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home.
Dictated By: BARB SHINABERY , M.D. JM03
Attending: NATHANIAL BYE , M.D. GL11  SQ570/6814
Batch: 03745 Index No. IVFW867L1U D: 1/1
T: 1/1