047657566 | PUO | 70437680 | | 9272210 | 6/2/2005 12:00:00 AM | FAILURE TO THRIVE , RENAL FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/30/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/9/2005
ATTENDING: STRATTER , BUNNY M.D.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:
Acute renal failure.
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Acute renal failure.
OTHER DIAGNOSES:
Right middle lobe pneumonia , COPD , hematuria , acute renal
failure , hypertension , end-stage renal disease , on hemodialysis ,
and coronary artery disease.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 57-yeare-old man with history of end-stage renal
disease , status post kidney transplant in 5/13 , aortic valve
replacement , coronary artery bypass graft , LIMA to LAD , in
7/7/005 , who is presenting here to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of with worsening
lower extremity edema , shortness of breath , and decreased urine
output , and an increased creatinine from 3.3 the baseline to 5.3.
On admission , the patient did not report that the lower
extremity edema felt worse than he normally feels at his
baseline , however , he had developed some left upper extremity
edema as well as his lower extremity edema. He also described a
new shortness of breath on admission , a cough with whitish
sputum , no blood in his cough. He denied dyspnea on exertion ,
but did report being short of breath while lying flat , or
orthopnea. He did not describe any PND. He also reported a
fever on admission with some chills and sweats for two days
before being presented to the emergency department. He also
described a decrease in his urine output one day prior to
admission and dysuria x2 days. The patient denied any nausea ,
vomiting , diarrhea , chest pain or pressure. No palpitations , and
no dyspnea on exertion.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for end-stage renal disease , aortic valve replacement
in 6/24 , left buttock ulcer , also followed by Plastic Surgery ,
hypertension , diabetes mellitus type II , congestive heart
failure , and hypercholesterolemia.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Included CellCept 1000 mg b.i.d. , prednisone 20 mg daily ,
valacyclovir 400 mg daily , calcitriol 0.25 mcg daily , metoprolol
25 mg b.i.d. , Bactrim single strength daily , NPH 16 units q.a.m. ,
18 units q.p.m. , NovoLog 6 units q.a.c. with sliding scale ,
Nexium 20 mg daily , Colace 100 mg daily , aspirin 325 mg daily ,
multivitamin , and tramadol 50 mg q.i.d.
ALLERGIES:
He reports no known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:
His temperature was 97.7 , his heart rate was 93-97 , his
respiratory rate was in the 30s , his blood pressure was 167/90 ,
and his O2 saturation was 97-99% on 2 liters. In general , he was
in fairly significant distress. He had difficulty catching his
breath. His head and neck exam is significant for equal , round
and reactive pupils. No cervical lymphedema , and no icterus.
His JVP was up to about 12 cm. He did not have any carotid
bruits. His cardiovascular exam was significant for rate and
rhythm that were regular at 2/6 systolic ejection murmur and
heard best in the right upper sternal border. He did not have S3
or S4. His chest incision was clean , dry and intact. His
pulmonary exam was significant for crackles bilaterally about a
halfway up his back. His abdomen was soft , nontender , and
nondistended , with positive bowel sounds. Incision of the
abdomen was similarly clean , dry and intact. His extremities
were significant for 3-4+ lower extremity edema , significant
pitting to the thighs , and some dependent decubitus edema as
well. He had 2+ pitting edema in his left upper extremity. He
had a fistula on his right arm. He has a decubitus sacral ulcer
with a VAC dressing in place on admission. Neurologic exam was
significant for alert and oriented x3. His cranial nerves were
all intact. He had no focal deficits.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Cardiovascular: Ischemia: Status post CABG and AVR. On
admission , we held the patient's anticoagulation for a possible
biopsy of his kidney. We continued his Lopressor at b.i.d.
dosing. The patient ruled out for a myocardial infarction. He
had four-beat runs of NSVT on the day of admission , which he did
not repeat after repletion of his electrolytes. He had chest
pain again on hospital day #3 overnight. He did not have any EKG
changes with his chest. He was given Lopressor x1 , he ruled out
once again. The pain that he had developed was thought to be
likely incisional and not cardiac. Pulmonary exam: The patient
developed acute worsening of pulmonary status while in the
observation area at the emergency department on admission on
hospital day #1. He had an increasing O2 requirement , worsening
pulmonary exam , and a chest x-ray that showed pulmonary edema.
He was not diuresing effectively with more than 360 mg with IV
Lasix , which was administered to him in the emergency department ,
so Renal was called urgently to see him in observation and he was
sent for urgent dialysis. At dialysis , they removed greater than
4 liters of fluid and the patient was patient was symptomatically
improved. He did continue to have lower extremity edema
post-dialysis and an oxygen requirement of 2 liters nasal cannula
to maintain his oxygen saturation. He was given IV Lasix 80 mg
x1 on hospital day #4 with excellent urine output. His lower
extremity edema improved significantly after hospital day #4.
2. Renal: On admission , the patient's creatinine was 5.3. It
peaked at 6.6 and trended down to 5.1 with clear signs of
improvement. On admission , there was no improvement in his urine
output with large doses of IV Lasix , however , and Renal was
consulted to clarify whether this was an acute rejection versus
ATN from toxic doses of cyclosporin. In the emergency
department , he was given one dose of Solu-Medrol 500 mg , however ,
he was found to have elevated cyclosporin levels at 679 , so this
was thought to be the likely cause of his acute renal failure and
his cyclosporin was temporarily held. Since that time , on his
hospital day #1 , his cyclosporin levels trended down to the point
at which there were just slightly over 100 on hospital day #3 and
cyclosporin was reinitiated at lower doses. He was dialyzed on
admission with removal of 4 liters of fluid , CVM , BK , and LDH
were sent from dialysis. His creatinine improved , so further
dialysis and biopsy were deemed unnecessary.
3. ID status: The patient presented with UTI on admission.
This was treated with levofloxacin 500 mg x1 and then 250 mg
q.48h. for a course of seven days. Blood cultures grew 4/4
Gram-negative rods , and the patient was diagnosed with urosepsis.
After dialysis , the patient was treated with ceftriaxone 1 g
daily and continued on levofloxacin 250 mg q.4-8h. Transplant
and Infectious Disease was consulted who recommended ceftriaxone
be discontinued and the levofloxacin to be continued for two
weeks after discharge with repeat cultures. HSV swap from sacral
wound was sent. These repeat cultures and HSV swab were all
negative , and levofloxacin was continued for two weeks
postdischarge.
4. FEN: We held the patient's fluids. We checked his I's and
O's on a daily basis with daily weights. His hyperkalemia on
admission was 6.1 , resolved with Kayexalate , insulin and D50
meds. He was given additional Kayexalate when he came up to the
floor and his K resolved , backed down to his normal range. The
patient was kept on a renal and cardiac diet. His albumin and
total protein were low , so a nutritional consult was called ,
which optimized his nutritional status.
5. Endocrine: The patient had a tight glycemic control on NPH
16 units q.a.m. and 19 units q.p.m. , NovoLog 6 units q.a.c. with
sliding scale , and the patient's sacral decubitus ulcer had a VAC
dressing in place on admission. Plastics was called to address
his VAC. They took down the VAC due to some leakage on admission
and he was treated with 1/4 Dakin's solution and wet-to-dry
dressing t.i.d. On discharge , he continued on the wet-to-dry
dressings. He will be followed as an outpatient VNA , and will
have the VAC replaced by the VNA as an outpatient. His
hematocrit was stable throughout his hospital stay.
6. Prophylaxis: The patient was kept on Nexium throughout his
hospital stay and we held his anticoagulation for possible
biopsy. He will resume his outpatient anticoagulation and INR
checks with his INR Follow-Up Clinic. He was able to leave the
floor for cigarettes , and he signed an agreement suggesting that
he was going to tolerate the risk of leaving the floor for short
period of time even while on telemetry.
On discharge , his medications included calcitriol 0.25 mcg p.o.
daily , Colace 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin 16 units q.a.m. , 18
units q.p.m. , ketoconazole 200 mg daily , Lopressor 25 mg t.i.d. ,
prednisone 20 mg q.a.c. , cyclosporin 125 mg b.i.d. , tramadol 50
mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. for pain , Bactrim single strength one tablet
p.o. daily , CellCept 1000 mg b.i.d. , valacyclovir 500 mg daily ,
levofloxacin 250 p.o. every other day x2 weeks , NovoLog 6 units
q.a.c. , Neoral 125 mg b.i.d. , and aspirin 325 mg daily.
The patient was discharged to home in stale condition.
eScription document: 5-7828795 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: GOBRECHT , ALVERTA
Attending: STRATTER , BUNNY
Dictation ID 0313513
D: 7/9/05
T: 7/9/05