597948455 | PUO | 95443893 | | 0599624 | 4/9/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/9/2003 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: ROSSIE MANKOSKI M.D.
DIAGNOSIS: Left calcaneus osteomyelitis.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Rackley is a 61-year-old
gentleman with type II diabetes , coronary artery disease ,
peripheral neuropathy and hypertension who presents for
evaluation of a longstanding left heel ulcer and presumed
calcaneus osteomyelitis. He also has had multiple surgeries in
the past as well as hyperbaric oxygen and has been refractory to
these treatments. He has had a recent flare in 3/16 and has
been treated at Akcare Hospital .  At that time the wound grew
out methicillin resistant staph aureus and e. coli. These
organisms have been treated with Vancomycin and Zosyn. However ,
an MRI at that time was thought to be consistent with
osteomyelitis. The patient presented for treatment of this
issue.
Additionally , the patient has had some left shoulder pain and was
admitted at Akcare Hospital on 1/26/2003 . There was concern for
sepsis at the sternoclavicular joint or perhaps at the
glenohumeral joint. The patient had an MRI at the outside
hospital which is not available to us but was concerning for some
abnormal process at the sternoclavicular joint. The patient
states he still has some shoulder pain that localizes to the
sternoclavicular joint. This seems to be improving over time.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Left heel ulcer and calcaneal
osteomyelitis , BPH status post TURP in 1984 , insulin diabetes
mellitus , hypertension , coronary artery disease status post an MI
in 1991 , cataracts.
ALLERGIES: To codeine.
MEDICATIONS: The patient takes insulin NPH 40 q.a.m. and 30
q.p.m. , Humalog 20 in the morning 60 at night , Norvasc 5 once a
day , Allopril ( sp? ) 40 once a day , Prilosec 20 once a day , K-Dur
10 once a day , Lasix 40 once a day , enteric coated aspirin 80
once a day , Protonix 40 once a day , Reglan 5 twice a day , Xanax
0.25 q.h.s.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Vital signs on admission are
stable with a temperature of 98.4. A pleasant gentleman. Clear
lungs. Heart regular rhythm. Abdomen soft and nontender. Left
heel has a 1.5 cm ulcer on the posterior aspect that appears to
tract deep to bone. He has generalized decreased neuropathy in
the foot and minimal EHL or FHL. He has 5/5 _____ with limited
range of motion at the ankle.
LABORATORY VALUES ON ADMISSION: White count of 6 , hematocrit of
30 , sed rate of 111.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the hospital for
evaluation and treatment of his calcaneous osteomyelitis. An MRI
was obtained which was read with a bone radiologist and
consistent with osteomyelitis. The patient was taken for
debridement to the operating room , after preoperative clearance
by the medicine team , for debridement of calcaneal osteomyelitis
on 7/6/2003 ( see _____ of the procedure ). Postoperatively the
patient was continued on Vancomycin , levofloxacin and Flagyl per
the infectious disease recommendations. The cultures from the
primary debridement ( in which the wound was able to be closed )
was methicillin resistant staph aureus.
The patient did well inhouse. His wound to the foot was changed
while inhouse and looked intact , clean and dry without drainage.
The drain was removed on postoperative day #4.
Regarding the patient's left sternoclavicular joint , CT scan was
obtained which was concerning for infection at the
sternoclavicular joint. An MRI was obtained to better image the
area and to determine whether or not there is some involvement of
the clavicle. On the CT scan there was no obvious collection
amenable to surgical decompression. At the time of this
dictation the MRI was pending.
The patient had also had a preoperative consult with the Plastic
Surgery team but this was not necessary at the patient's wound
was able to be closed in the OR. Additionally , vascular studies
were obtained which were read as excellent PVRs preoperatively.
FOLLOW UP: The patient will follow up with the Infectious
Disease team as well as primary care physician as well as
Orthopedic Surgery team and Dr. Brannigan one week after discharge.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Per the ID record , Vancomycin 1 gram
q.24h as well as gatifloxacin 200 mg once a day. The patient
will continue his home medicines.
LABS: Labs will be checked once per week by the primary care
physician.
WEIGHTBEARING: The patient will be tested on weightbearing of
the left lower extremity.
eScription document: 0-9161171 DBSSten Tel
Dictated By: BARRETTE , GENNY
Attending: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE
Dictation ID 8155873
D: 1/12/03
T: 1/12/03