331588317 | PUO | 71222909 | | 3444310 | 5/20/2007 12:00:00 AM | HEPATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/8/2007 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 7/22/2007
ATTENDING: REINSTEIN , MISTI M.D.
SERVICE:
GI
BRIEF ADMISSION HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Mr. Lack is a 50-year-old male with a history of Hep-C and NASH
cirrhosis who was transferred from the outside hospital with
presumed hepatic encephalopathy after being found unresponsive in
his apartment. Of note , the patient has been in the ED two days
prior to admission on 3/17/2007 for abdominal pain and
distention , at which time labs were within normal limits ,
including no white count , LFTs , but he did have ammonia of 81.
Plan was for paracentesis , but the patient refused and he left
AMA before follow up with his GI doctor could be arranged. His
family was unable to contact him on the evening on 6/11/2007 . A
friend was sent and checked him out in the following morning on
1/13/2006 and the patient was found alone in his apartment and
unresponsive. He was taken to the Tonsta Ean Villebaxt Hospital by EMS on 10/28/2007 , and the patient was tachycardic and
febrile to 100.2 , and only able to open eyes to commands ,
otherwise noncommunicative per report. A diagnostic and
therapeutic paracentesis of 4 liters was performed , which was
negative for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. His systolic
blood pressure dropped to the 80's post-paracentesis and he had
elevated cardiac enzymes with troponin of 0.49. The patient's
course at the outside hospital was also complicated by UTI ,
status post two days or ciprofloxacin and an acute renal failure
in the setting of diuresis ( creatinine rising from 0.8 and 1.5 ).
Given the patient's extensive history of cardiac/GI treatment at
the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of , he was transferred to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of on 4/8/2007 .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: Undergoing liver transplant
workup. HAV , HCV reactive. HBV negative. Smooth muscle
antibody positive. Large volume ascites with multiple
paracenteses from 3/29 through 8/13 .  Liver biopsied on
8/12 with portal mononuclear inflammation ,
micro/macrovesicular steatosis , focal sinusoidal fibrosis.
2. CAD , status post stent: Cardiac cath done 3/16/2006
revealed proximal LAD with ostial 90% disease , 50% ??____?? LIMA
touchdown , 90% ostial left circumflex , totally occluded RCA ,
patent LIMA to LAD and patent SVG to PDA and radial to diagonal ,
but radial graft to OM was totally occluded. He had a bare-metal
stent placed to left circumflex lesion.
3. Status post CABG in 4/17 with LIMA to LAD , SVG to PDA ,
renal graft to OM and diagonal. Asymptomatic since CABG , but in
workup for liver transplant , the patient was found to have
elevated troponin and taken to cath as above.
4. Hypertension.
5. Diabetes , mild.
6. Asthma.
7. Morbid obesity.
8. Thrombocytopenia.
9. Acute renal failure in the setting of large volume taps.
HOME MEDICATIONS:
Albuterol two puff q.i.d. , Nexium 40 mg p.o. daily , Advair 500/50
inhaler one puff b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , Plavix 75 mg
p.o. daily , Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily ( decreased from 40 , prior from
80 in the last month ) , metformin 850 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Avandia 8 mg
p.o. daily , and lactulose 30 mL p.o. daily.
MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER FROM TEVH :
Albuterol 90 mcg two puff q.6 h. , fluticasone/salmeterol one puff
b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily ,
rifaximin 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. , nadolol 400 mg p.o. daily ,
lactulose 30 mL p.o. daily , atorvastatin 40 mg p.o. daily , and
pantoprazole 40 mg p.o. daily.
ALLERGIES:
1. IV contrast: Urticaria.
2. Metoprolol: Bronchospasm.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AND STUDIES ON ADMISSION:
Temperature 96.5 , heart rate 54-63 , blood pressure 106/54 ,
respiratory rate 20 , and SAO2 of 96%. General: An
obese-appearing male in no apparent distress. HEENT:
Normocephalic and atraumatic , PERRL , no scleral icterus , JVP
equals 8 cm. No cervical LAD. Lungs are clear to auscultation
bilaterally. No crackles , wheezes or rhonchi. Cardiovascular:
Distant heart sounds , regular rate and rhythm , normal S1 and S2 ,
no murmurs , rubs or gallops. Abdomen: Very protuberant and
distended , bruising throughout , fluid wave present , nontender ,
normal bowel sounds in all four quadrants , no HSM or masses
palpated. Extremities: No cyanosis or clubbing , 2+ pitting
edema to the knees , anasarca , 2+ radial pulses bilaterally.
Derm: Prominent abdominal wall varices , which are common , no
caput , prominent bruising , no palmar erythema or spider angiomas.
Neuro: Alert and oriented to person , place and time. Cranial
nerves II through XII are intact. Motor strength and sensation
are grossly intact. Positive asterixis.
NOTABLE STUDIES AND PROCEDURES:
Diagnostic/therapeutic paracenteses x4 using abdominal ultrasound
to mark site ( volumes removed: 6 liters , 6 liters , 1.2 liters ,
and 6 liters.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Hepatic encephalopathy: On transfer , Mr. Lack is alert and
oriented , but still very confused with limited verbal
communication. Baseline ammonia on 1/26/2007 was 66. He was
continued on lactulose and rifaximin , which were titrated to a
goal to 3-4 bowel movements per day. During his hospitalization ,
the patient was noncompliant with lactulose regimen due to
confusion and had two episodes of decreased responsiveness. During these
episodes , there were no EKG or ABG changes suspicious for ischemia or
hypercapnia or hypoxia. Given his agitation , the patient was placed on
restraints after which
his mental status improved , inflicting a possible voluntary and
metabolic component is decompensation. He was able to contract
with healthcare team as his mental status improved and continued
to be compliant with his regimen. At discharge , he continues to
be alert and oriented , appropriately interactive , and an
ammonia of 16. Plans were to follow up with Dr. Reinstein for
continued evaluation of his possible liver transplant and
management of his hepatic encephalopathy. He should continue on
his lactulose regimen and rifaximin.
2. Ascites: Mr. Lack 's intake weight was 225 pounds. He
underwent diagnostic therapeutic paracenteses x4. The first two
and fourth procedures removed 6 liters while the third procedure
removed 1.2 liters. Before and after each tap , the patient was
infused with IV albumin at 8 g/liter of ascites fluid removed.
Analysis of ascites fluid showed a SAAG of 1.4 , 2.7 , 3 , and 2.8
respectively , which is consistent with portal hypertension. The
ascites fluid was also negative for spontaneous bacterial
peritonitis. Following each procedure , Mr. Lack remained
hemodynamically stable with blood pressures of 80-90/40-50. His
blood pressure and weights remained stable following
paracentesis , reflecting limited reaccumulation fluid.
Discharge weight is 299.9 pounds. He should continue on
diuretics to maintain his ascites at a reasonable level including
Lasix 80 mg p.o. daily and Aldactone 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3. Renal insufficiency: Lasix and Aldactone were initially
started on Mr. Lack 's stay at the TEVH , but they were
discontinued after increasing in serum creatinine from baseline
of 0.8 to 1.4 at the time of transfer. The patient's renal
insufficiency was likely secondary to hypotension with consequent
renal hypoperfusion. Renal ultrasound at the outside hospital
was negative. Following transfer , Mr. Lack was given empiric
hydration challenge with IV normal saline and albumin. He proved
responsive to this treatment with creatinine dropping from 1.4
to 1.1. He was restarted on Lasix 20 mg p.o. and Aldactone 50 mg
p.o. , and gradually titrated up to a discharge dose of Lasix 80
mg p.o. daily and Aldactone 200 mg p.o. daily. His serum
creatinine has remained stable at 0.7 to 0.9. He will follow up
with Dr. Reinstein .
4. Hypotension: Mr. Lack had been hypotensive at the outside
hospital following paracentesis with normal saline placement.
His regimen of lisinopril and nifedipine were consequently held
and discontinued. Given his systolic blood pressures of 80's to
90's , nadolol was also discontinued at the time of transfer.
Throughout his current hospitalization , Mr. Lack 's blood
pressures have remained stable in the 80-90/40-50.
5. Troponin leak: Mr. Lack 's troponin leak at the outside
hospital is likely due to hypovolemic hypoperfusion. He was
continued on aspirin , Plavix , and Zocor at the outside hospital
as he has status post stents and CABG. At the time of transfer ,
his troponin had decreased from 0.49 to 0.15. He has maintained
on aspirin , Plavix , and Zocor , remained stable and asymptomatic
throughout the stay. A repeat troponin performed on 1/26/2007
was less than 0.1 ( less than assay ).
6. UTI: Mr. Lack had positive urinalysis at the outside
hospital. He was treated with 3-day course of Cipro. A
urinalysis performed during this admission was negative.
7. Guaiac-positive stool: Likely secondary to straining ,
esophageal , and anorectal varices. The patient's hematocrit had
been stable at 35 to 43. At discharge , recommended workup in EGD
as an outpatient with Dr. Reinstein .
8. Contact dermatitis: On hospital day #9 , the patient
developed a contact dermatitis on inner aspect of his thighs ,
thought to be secondary to his urinary and fecal incontinence.
He was treated with topical hydrocortisone and miconazole. He
also developed an infected skin tag on his back , which was
treated with topical bacitracin. These should be continued to be
treated at rehab and followed up by his PCP.
9. Diabetes mellitus: Throughout his hospitalization , Mr.
Heinzen blood glucose levels were well controlled with
fingerstick showing blood sugars to 100 to 190. The patient's
metformin and Avandia were held and he was started on insulin
sliding scale , but required minimal coverage. At discharge from
rehab , he should be restarted on his p.o. regimen of Avandia and
metformin. He will follow up with his PCP , Dr. Gerrard .
10. Heme: On admission , INR was 1.7 , likely due to decreased
synthetic function of his liver. He was given a 3-day course of
vitamin K with a good response. At the time of discharge , the patient's
INR was 1.6.
11. Code status: Full code.
12. Disposition: To rehab.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , albuterol inhaler two puffs b.i.d.
p.r.n. wheezing , bacitracin topical b.i.d. applied to affected
area , Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , Nexium 40 mg
p.o. daily , Advair Diskus 250/50 two puffs inhaler b.i.d. , Lasix
80 mg p.o. daily , heparin 5000 units subq q.8 h. , hydrocortisone
1% cream topical b.i.d. , applied to affected areas , insulin
aspart sliding scale , lactulose 45 mL p.o. t.i.d. , miconazole
nitrate 2% powder topical , applied to affected areas b.i.d. ,
rifaximin 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. , simvastatin 40 mg p.o. at bedtime ,
Aldactone 200 mg p.o. daily , and multivitamin one tablet p.o.
daily.
FOLLOW-UP PLAN:
1. Please take all the medications as directed. Continue to
work with physical therapy. Follow up with your appointments
with Dr. Reinstein and Dr. Gerrard . Please notify your doctors
if you become increasingly confused , experiencing chest pain ,
lose consciousness , rapid weight gain or any other concerning
symptoms.
2. Dr. Reinstein , GI: At follow-up appointment , please assess the
patient for worsening ascites , medication compliance , and renal
insufficiency. Please titrate diuretics and lactulose. Consider
outpatient EGD to assess your esophageal varices.
3. Dr. Gerrard : At follow-up appointment , please assess
patient's contact dermatitis on his lower extremities , and
infected skin tag on his back. Please assess the patient's blood
glucose levels. Continue to monitor the patient's renal function
and blood pressure.
4. Rehab: Physical therapy to work with the patient. Ensure
medication compliance. Monitor for acute changes in mental
status and blood pressure.
Prior to discharge , transition the patient back to oral diabetic
regimen of Avandia 8 mg p.o. daily and metformin 850 mg t.i.d.
CC:
Dr. Reinstein
Dr. Gerrard
eScription document: 2-6353374 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: SURACE , NINA
Attending: REINSTEIN , MISTI
Dictation ID 9770678
D: 6/25/07
T: 6/25/07