931325247 | PUO | 82325227 | | 415496 | 2/22/1997 12:00:00 AM | R/O PULMONARY EMBOLUS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/22/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/23/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
OTHER SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS:
1. NON-HODGKIN'S LYMPHOMA.
2. HODGKIN'S DISEASE , STATUS POST MECHLORETHAMINE , VINCRISTINE ,
PROCARBAZINE , AND PREDNISONE CHEMOTHERAPY TEN YEARS AGO.
3. HYPERTENSION.
4. STATUS POST TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Three days of shortness of breath.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Pittsinger is an African American
female who is 72 years of age with a
history of Hodgkin's disease status post MOPP chemotherapy , and
more recently diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma for which she
is being treated with CHOP chemotherapy. She was tolerating the
chemotherapy without complications until developing symptoms of
fatigue as well as shortness of breath over a three to four day
period prior to admission. In July 1997 , Ms. Pittsinger presented to
the Oncology Clinic with a biliary obstruction that was shown to be
a peripancreatic mass and a left subclavicular lymph node. Biopsy
of the subclavicular lymph node revealed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma ,
for which she was treated with CHOP chemotherapy. Given her
previous exposure to Adriamycin for treatment of Hodgkin's disease
ten years previously , the patient's cardiac function was followed
and serial echocardiograms over the past six months. The previous
three cycles of CHOP chemotherapy were complicated with a
peripancreatic abscess which was treated with intravenous then oral
antibiotics with good resolution. She , subsequently , three more
cycles of CHOP chemotherapy and was in near complete remission by
gallium scan; however , a persistent abdominal mass was still
detected on Computerized Tomography scan. Her therapy was stopped
after five cycle of CHOP due to the maximum Adriamycin dose of 460
mg/m2. The patient was being restaged and was found to develop
acute shortness of breath over the weekend , denying any chest pain ,
nausea or vomiting , or light-headedness. The patient denies any
changes in her activities except for becoming more tired with
exertion and wakening up suddenly the night prior to admission
feeling short of breath.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Includes Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma , Hodgkin's
disease , hypertension , and a total abdominal
hysterectomy with bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.
ALLERGIES: The patient has no known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Reveals a well-developed , well-nourished
elderly woman who is able to speak complete
sentences , but with some difficulty. Her vital signs were a heart
rate of 140; respiration rate of 32 to 36. Oxygen saturation of
92% on room air and is afebrile. The neck examination revealed a
jugular venous pressure of 8 centimeters. No thyromegaly or
lymphadenopathy was appreciated. Chest examination revealed
bilateral lower lobe rales , no rhonchi or wheezes were appreciated.
Coronary examination revealed tachycardic rate and rhythm with a
positive S3. The abdomen was benign. There is no edema at the
lower extremities.
LABORATORY: Electrocardiogram revealed a sinus tachycardia at 130 ,
normal axes and intervals. No ST or T wave changes.
Her profile-7 is remarkable for a potassium of 3.3 , otherwise
unremarkable. The patient has an elevated LDH. Cholesterol level
was 243 and elevated triglyceride level of 197. Complete blood
count was significant for an elevated white count of 11 , 600;
hematocrit of 39.9 with an MCV of 91.2; and platelet count of
131 , 000. There was a normal differential of the complete blood
count. Her coags are also within normal parameters. The
urinalysis was benign.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Problem number one is the patient's shortness of
breath. Given the acute onset of shortness of
breath and dyspnea upon exertion , causes contributing to the change
in pulmonary status included pulmonary embolism , congestive heart
failure , and pneumonia. Of note , the patient's chest x-ray
revealed bilateral pleural effusions. However , the patient was
afebrile. Therefore , our suspicion for pneumonia was low. The
patient received an echocardiogram to evaluate cardiac function.
The echocardiogram on June , 1997 , revealed a mildly enlarged
ventricle with moderately decreased systolic function. Estimated
ejection fraction was 30%. Global hypokinesis was identified along
with a marked significant involvement of the apex as well as the
anterior septal and inferior regions of the heart. Normal right
ventricular systolic function was observed. Also noted is that
there was a small pericardial effusion with an elevated PA pressure
of 36. There was also the existence of mild to moderate mitral
regurgitation and mild tricuspid regurgitation. All of this had
little change from the echocardiogram taken on May , 1997 ,
which revealed an ejection fraction of 30% to 35% along with
hypokinesis and a small pericardial effusion. This was markedly
different from the patient's echocardiogram in January 1997 with
revealed an ejection fraction of 67% with normal left ventricular
function and no wall motion abnormalities. The patient was started
on a Lasix regimen in order to start diuresis with good response to
intravenous Lasix. The patient also was less dependent on oxygen
supplements , however , the patient still reported episodes of
dyspnea upon minor activity. A cardiology consultation was
obtained to evaluate the deterioration in the patient's cardiac
function. This deterioration was associated with the toxicity of
Adriamycin. A repeat echocardiogram was obtained to evaluate the
pericardial effusion as well as an abnormality identified on the
May , 1997 , echocardiogram consistent with a possible rupture
of one of the chordae tendineae. There was little difference
between the echocardiogram from May , 1997 , June , 1997 ,
and February , 1997. The patient was maintained on a regimen of
Lasix as well as Ace inhibitors. Initially , the addition of
ionatrope was considered. However , given the patient's history of
potassium and magnesium wasting , it was decided to add digoxin to
the patient's medical regimen.
The patient was also evaluated for the possibility of developing a
pulmonary embolus. Lower extremity noninvasive examinations
revealed patent vasculature , but no indication of a lower extremity
deep venous thrombosis. The patient also received a VQ scan which
revealed a low probability of the presence of a pulmonary embolus.
After the obtaining of a VQ scan which was negative , the heparin
that was initially stated upon admission of the patient , was
stopped.
The patient was discharged on a regimen of enalapril as well as
Lasix in order to manage the congestive heart failure. The
etiology of the congestive heart failure was thought to the
Adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy.
Fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: The patient has a history of
a potassium and magnesium wasting. Serial profile-7s were obtained
and potassium and magnesium were regularly supplemented. The
patient was discharged with a daily regimen of potassium.
DISPOSITION: The patient showed marked clinical improvement with
diuresis as well as actively reduction with an Ace inhibitor. The
patient was warned that she needed to watch her salt intake. Of
note , the patient was noted not to be compliant with a low-salt
diet. Three days before admission , the patient admitted to having
a Chinese food dinner which may have contributed to the patient's
element of congestive heart failure.
The patient was discharged with the following medications: Colace
100 mg b.i.d.; Vasotec 10 mg q.d.; Lasix 20 mg q.d.; KCl 10 mEq
q.d.; and magnesium gluconate 500 mg q.d.
The patient was discharged in stable condition , with followup with
Dr. Harajly of Wil Medical Center Oncology.
Dictated By: TELMA DALONZO , M.D. MP64
Attending: ROLANDE R. PULLUS , M.D. EP70  WT544/9235
Batch: 88563 Index No. ZJXSHX91JU D: 8/18/97
T: 3/30/97