385713924 | PUO | 14791481 | | 277071 | 10/3/1999 12:00:00 AM | SYNCOPE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/26/1999 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 11/17/1999
SERVICE: The patient was cared for on Cardiology Team Co Valle Ro
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Syncope.
ADDITIONAL DIAGNOSES INCLUDE: 1. Coronary artery disease. 2.
Bradycardia. 3. Diabetes mellitus. 4. Hypertension. 5.
Chronic renal insufficiency.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 74-year-old male with
history of acute inferior myocardial infarction in February of
1998 , with total occlusion of the mid circumflex , with fresh
thrombus which was percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplastied
and stented. At catheterization in February , he was noted to have
50 percent right coronary artery , as well. His hospital course at
that time was complicated by atrial fibrillation with Mobitz type I
block. The patient was loaded on procainamide. He also had
several episodes of congestive heart failure. Echocardiogram in
February showed right ventricular dysfunction. At discharge , a
submaximum exercise tolerance test , the patient went three minutes
and twenty-one seconds without evidence of ischemia. On the day of
admission , the patient was in cardiac rehabilitation class when he
became light-headed while seated and lost consciousness for
approximately five seconds. He regained full consciousness. He
denied chest pain , shortness of breath , chest tightness , fever ,
chills , nausea or vomiting. He had no urine or stool incontinence ,
and no focal abnormal motor movements were noted by observers. A
code blue was called , and he went to the Emergency Department.
Electrocardiogram showed old inferior Qs , PRWP , and slightly
elevated T wave in V2 with left anterior fascicular block with
heart rate of 49. Initial CK was 39 with a Troponin I of 0.02. He
was admitted to Ver Pring La for further workup and treatment.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Coronary artery disease. 2. Diabetes
mellitus on insulin. 3. Hypertension. 4. Status post bilateral
knee replacements. 5. Asbestos exposure. 6. Chronic renal
insufficiency.
ALLERGIES: Allergies to penicillin.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Aspirin 325 mg q.d. 2. Captopril
75 mg t.i.d. 3. NPH insulin 18 q.a.m. and 8 q.p.m. 4.
Procainamide 500 mg t.i.d. 5. Simvastatin 20 mg once a day.
SOCIAL HISTORY: A 40 pack year history , quit four years ago.
Denies alcohol.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: A well-appearing gentleman , in
no apparent distress. Vital signs , afebrile , heart rate 50 , blood
pressure 111/87 , respirations 16 , 98 percent on two liters. HEENT ,
atraumatic , normocephalic , oropharynx clear. Neck , carotids 2+ , no
bruits , no cervical adenopathy with the exception of a 2.0
centimeter node in the occipital region. Chest , clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Cardiovascular , bradycardic , regular
rate and rhythm , normal S1 and S2. Abdomen , positive bowel sounds ,
soft , non-tender , nondistended , no hepatosplenomegaly.
Extremities , no edema , no other lymphadenopathy. Neurological
examination , alert and oriented x three , non-focal.
LABORATORY DATA: Admission laboratory is significant for a
creatinine of 1.6 and a potassium of 5.1. Blood count were white
blood cell count 5.5 , hematocrit 44.6 , platelets 233. CK 39 ,
cardiac Troponin I 0.02.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient is a 74-year-old male with history of
acute inferior myocardial infarction in February , complicated by
postmyocardial infarction atrial fibrillation and Mobitz type I
block , now admitted following syncopal episode. The
Electrophysiology Service was consulted and prior to
electrophysiology study the patient underwent evaluation for
possible ischemic causes of an arrhythmia. He was initially ruled
out for myocardial infarction by serial enzymes and
electrocardiograms. On standard Bruce protocol exercise tolerance
test mibi , April , 1999 , the patient went four minutes and
thirty seconds , maximum heart rate 121 , maximum blood pressure
210/85. He had typical chest pain for angina and chest tightness
at peak exercise which was relieved with rest. There were no
electrocardiogram changes. He remained in sinus rhythm. Mibi
images showed a mixed MI in basilar half of the inferior wall in
4/20 segments , mild peri-infarct ischemia in 3/20 segments in the
right coronary artery territory. He had normal left ventricular
function , normal left ventricular volume , and global systolic left
ventricular function with left ventricular ejection fraction of 55
percent , wall motion abnormalities and severe inferior wall
hypokinesis and mild septal hypokinesis. Based on the results of
the exercise tolerance test mibi , the patient underwent cardiac
catheterization on April , 1999 which revealed a normal left
main , left anterior descending artery with minor irregularities ,
left circumflex with 90 percent in-stent restenosis in proximal
segment with a dominant left circumflex , and right coronary artery
with a mid 50 percent lesion. The patient underwent successful
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the in-stent
restenosis. He was subsequently continued on aspirin. The
Electrophysiology Service recommended that the patient's
procainamide be stopped. Of note , the patient's QT interval was
not prolonged while on procainamide. After the procainamide was
held , the patient underwent electrophysiology study on October ,
1999 revealing normal sinus node recovery time , impaired AV nodal
conduction , no inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia , and no
inducible supraventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation. The
patient was discharged to home with plans to follow-up with his
primary cardiologist , perhaps with a Holter or event monitor.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS INCLUDE: 1. Aspirin 325 mg q.d. 2.
Captopril 75 mg t.i.d. 3. NPH Humulin insulin 18 units q.a.m. and
8 units q.p.m. 4. Nitroglycerin sublingual tablets. 5. Vitamin
E. 6. Simvastatin 20 mg q.h.s.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will be followed up by his primary care
doctor , in particular the posterior cervical single lymph node
should be followed up by his primary care physician.
Dictated By: MELDA IVASKA , M.D. UY984
Attending: RUFUS C. BERNAS , M.D. KA5  CY278/9428
Batch: 15477 Index No. A6WUSX9UMG D: 2/10/99
T: 11/28/99