866042595 | PUO | 98727354 | | 499858 | 11/12/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/29/1992 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 3/30/1992
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: SYNCOPE.
SLEEP APNEA.
DEPRESSION.
OPERATIONS/PROCEDURES: ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY.
HOLTER MONITORING.
EXERCISE TOLERANCE TESTING.
SLEEP STUDY.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 47 year old white
male with a history of
insulin-dependent diabetes , hypertension , and coronary artery
disease. The patient presents with multiple syncopal episodes in
the week prior to admission. Cardiac risk factors include
diabetes , hypertension and a positive family history. He does not
smoke and has normal cholesterol. He has chronic stable angina for
which he needs one to three nitroglycerin per day over several
months. He has been gaining weight and has increasing peripheral
edema. He also notes decreased exercise tolerance and increasing
fatigue and dyspnea on exertion. He complains of PND but denies
orthopnea. In 2/10 he had a standard Bruce exercise test in which
he went 8 minutes and 15 seconds , stopping for typical chest pain
with a heart rate of 150 and blood pressure of 186/90. He had no
EKG changes and no arrhythmias. Thallium scanning showed anterior
and apical perfusion defects with delayed reperfusion.
Echocardiography at that time showed mild concentric hypertrophy
and akinesis of the anterior , lateral and apical walls. He had
only mildly decreased left ventricular function and no valvular
disease. The patient has been admitted to the Rotusin Healthcare And Center where he has undergone coronary angiography ,
which showed that his coronary arteries had no significant
obstruction. Over the week prior to admission he had four episodes
of syncope which occurred at various times , not related to meals.
He was usually standing or walking just prior to the episode.
There is a 15 to 30 second prodrome of nausea , diaphroresis , and
the sensation of spinning. He does not have chest pain or
shortness of breath. He has had a total of four episodes with loss
of consciousness and falling. He does have urinary incontinence
but has not been witnessed to have involuntary movements. There is
no post ictal state. There has been no recent change in his
medical regimen. The patient also describes the symptoms of
snoring at night with fatigue and has been noticed to make gasping
sounds during sleep. He complains of waking up frequently at night ,
feeling as though he cannot catch his breath and admits to a weight
gain of 100 pounds over the last several years. He has a history
of depression and suicidal ideation and currently is depressed and
has had thoughts of wishing he were dead. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Peptic ulcer disease , hypertension , depression , diabetes mellitus
for ten years and a distant history of seizures after head trauma.
SOCIAL HISTORY: He is currently a student and former alcoholic.
He is currently separated from his wife and has three sons and a
daughter. FAMILY HISTORY: Remarkable for diabetes in both mother
and father and hypertension in both parents. He claims both
parents had cardiomyopathy. ALLERGIES: The patient claims to have
fever and edema with a rash to Procardia. MEDICATIONS ON ADMIT:
Lasix 20 mg p.o.q.d. prn , Diltiazem 90 mg p.o.t.i.d. , Quinine 300
mg p.o.q.h.s. , Isordil 30 mg p.o.t.i.d. , aspirin one per day ,
Atenolol 50 mg p.o.q.d. , Lysinopril 20 mg p.o.q.d. , sublingual
nitroglycerin prn , NPH insulin 40 units in the morning , 20 at
night , regular insulin 20 units in the a.m. , Sucralfate one gram
p.o.q.i.d..
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Afebrile with a normal pulse and blood
pressure of 130/90. He was not orthostatic ,
head and neck benign. No carotid bruits. Lungs clear. Heart: He
has a normal S1 and S2 with an S4. There is no murmur. Abdomen
obese without masses. Rectal: Guaiac negative. Normal prostate.
He has edema to his knees bilaterally. Neurologic: He has
pressured speech and a tearful affect. He is alert and oriented.
CNs intact. Motor strength is full. He has no sensory deficits
and normal position sense. He has diminished reflexes throughout
but downgoing toes bilaterally.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: He had a glucose of 323 , but otherwise
normal admission laboratories except for
an LDH of 529 and an alkaline phosphatase of 151. Admission CK was
138 , amylase of 56 , lipase of 52. Hemoglobin A1C 8.3 , cholesterol
170 , UA shows 2+ glucose. Chest x-ray shows a normal size heart
with clear lungs. EKG shows sinus at 70 with normal axis and
intervals. There are flat T waves in I , L , and III , but no change
from a previous EKG.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient underwent Holter monitoring in which
he had no arrhythmias. He occasionally had sinus
tachycardia. An exercise test showed that he went six minutes and
17 seconds of a standard Bruce protocol. His maximum heart rate
was 140 and blood pressure was 210/60. There were no EKG changes
with the exception of unifocal PVCs , so that there was no evidence
for ischemia. He had an echocardiogram which showed normal valves
and normal left ventricular function. Notably the right side of
his heart was also normal. The patient also underwent sleep study
during the day after sleep deprivation the previous night. The
study lasted only 1-1/2 hours and the patient was not noted during
that time to have sleep apnea. However , an overnight study was
recommended.
DISPOSITION: Discharge medications are the same as his admission
medications with the addition of Prozac 20 mg
p.o.q.d. He follows up with Dr. Latoria Ogden in KTDUOO clinic.
RG805/7393
NADIA WANKUM , M.D. LD2 D: 11/24/92
Batch: 4488 Report: G3523Z08 T: 8/15/92
Dictated By: KALEIGH IMRIE , M.D.