501106203 | PUO | 40514567 | | 322781 | 1/1/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/21/1992 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 5/13/1992
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 72 year old black female
with a history of hypertension ,
angina , adult onset diabetes , admitted after a syncopal event. She
has a known history of syncope which dates as far back as the late
1960s. In 1970 she had an episode of loss of consciousness with 30
seconds of generalized tonic convulsions witnessed by her daughter.
An EEG at that time showed diffuse theta waves but was nonfocal.
The patient was treated with Dilantin for less than a year. In
1972 she had another episode of syncope associated with
hyperventilation. In 1983 she had yet another episode of syncope
and a 24 hour Holter started after the event showed a heart rate
that went as low as 38 but was not associated with any symptoms. In
1987 she had a vasovagal event which was later aggravated when her
neighbor gave her a nitroglycerin tablet. Throughout this time she
has had multiple other episodes of syncope. Her last episode was
in 1989 , when she was admitted to the Cardiology Team for workup.
Her EKG was unremarkable , 24 hour Holter was normal , an
echocardiogram was normal , and she underwent an exercise stress
test which did not show ischemic changes. In October of 1992 , she
had carotid ultrasounds for symptoms of right hand and leg
numbness. They did not show significant stenosis. In October of
1992 , she was admitted and ruled out for a myocardial infarction
and was started on Isordil and Lopressor empirically but these were
later discontinued. In February of 1992 she had a clinic visit with
Dr. Caroyln Reidherd who is her KTDUOO doctor. The patient indicates
that she has stable exertional angina without limitation of daily
activity , chest pain is relieved with nitroglycerin and her most
recent episode was last week. She has also been on a stable dose
of Micronase for the last couple of years. On the morning of
admission , the patient awoke and felt fine , and was getting ready
to have coffee with her friends upstairs. She was reaching for
something across the table and suddenly felt a sharp pain in her
back and fell unconscious into the chair. Estimated loss of
consciousness was 6-7 minutes. She awoke confused , did not know
her name and had a little bit of difficulty seeing. It was unclear
by her history whether her vision was blurry or whether she felt
that there was a shade across her eyes. She denies any double
vision. Prior to this event she did not experience any prodrome or
aura. She also denied chest pain , shortness of breath or
palpitations. There was no loss of bladder or bowel function
during the event. The patient was given orange juice after the
episode and gradually she regained awareness of her surroundings.
Her vital signs were stable. She was brought to Gle Ra Csylv Valley Medical Center
for evaluation. There was a question of upper extremity twitching
by report from observers. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension
dating at least 10 years back and is presently not requiring any
treatment. She has a history , as mentioned , of recurrent syncopal
events. She was diagnosed a couple of years ago with adult onset
diabetes and has been on a stable dose of Micronase. The patient
also has a history of multiple colonic polyps and in 1983 underwent
a left hemicolectomy for multiple polyps. In 1988 she underwent an
ileal resection for large inflammatory polyps leading to a small
bowel obstruction. She has had a cholecystectomy and an
appendectomy in the distant past. The patient also a history of
glaucoma. In 1973 and 1976 she had a right lower extremity DVT ,
etiology was unclear. The patient does not smoke , drink or use any
drugs. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION include aspirin one tablet q d ,
Questran one pack q d , Micronase 5 mg po q d , Betaxolol eye drops
bid to each eye , Pilocarpine eye drops tid to each eye ,
eye drops bid to each eye. The patient receives monthly Vitamin
B12 injections. She also takes nitroglycerin with chest pain.
FAMILY HISTORY is significant for a brother who suffered a stroke
at the age of 74. There is also a family history of heart attacks.
No family history of gastrointestinal cancer. SOCIAL HISTORY: The
patient is separated and lives by herself in Har Cinberke Walk She has
eight children with many grandchildren. REVIEW OF SYSTEMS is
notable for episodes of sweats and nervousness over the last week
which she describes as being similar to the hot flashes of
menopause which she had at age 49. These episodes are occurring a
few times a day but do not in any way coincide with her syncopal
events. She is also complaining of right hand and foot numbness
which have increased in frequency. The numbness occasionally wakes
her up at night. She denies any motor weakness whatsoever.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She is an elderly , mildly obese female , in
no apparent distress. She was afebrile , with
a blood pressure of 126/70 , a heart rate of 60 , and a respiratory
rate of 18. HEENT exam was notable for pinpoint constriction of
her pupils secondary to her glaucoma eyedrops. Her pupils were
reactive. Her throat was benign. She had dentures. Her neck was
supple , without lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly. Chest exam
revealed bibasilar , coarse crackles. On cardiac exam she had no
jugular venous distention , and carotids were normal without bruits.
She had a regular rate and rhythm with S1 , S2 , and an occasional
S4. There were no murmurs. Abdominal exam was benign. The patient
was guaiac negative. Extremities were without edema and there was
no calf tenderness. The neurologic exam was entirely nonfocal.
LABORATORY DATA: Includes a sodium of 143 , potassium of 4.3 ,
chloride of 109 , bicarbonate of 20 , BUN of 21;
creatinine was 1.0. The glucose was 160. Her calcium and
phosphate were normal. Her hematocrit was 43.4 , her white count
6.45 with a normal differential. Her coagulation factors were
normal. Her liver function tests were normal. A chest X ray
showed a calcific aorta but was otherwise clear. C spine X ray and
head CT on admission were also negative. The EKG showed no changes
from her baseline.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was placed on a cardiac monitor , and
her Micronase was held. In fact , her fingerstick
glucose went as low as 80 that evening. On day two of admission ,
the patient had syncopal event while in house. She was apparently
walking about after having washed her face and was reaching to pull
the curtain when she began feeling lightheaded. She told the nurse
immediately , who tried to get her on the bed , and the patient
collapsed on the bed , was limp and lost consciousness for about 3-5
minutes. She had a systolic blood pressure of 200/105 and a heart
rate of 90. There were no changes on the cardiac monitor , and the
patient was noted to maintain a strong pulse at all times. She was
given Nitro Paste and 1 amp of D50. Fingerstick glucose was then
noted to be 232. The patient was witnessed to have mild twitching
of her jaw and eyelids and after five minutes , she opened her eyes
but was not able to respond. When asked to give her name , she was
not able to answer. The confusion subsided over the next couple of
minutes , and the patient was able to respond and was alert and
oriented. However , she had no recollection of the event. Further
workup included a head MRI , MR angiogram of her vertebrobasilar
circulation , a sleep deprived EEG , a cardiac echo , and a 24 hour
Holter. All of the above were negative. We also applied carotid
sinus stimulation and she showed no change in heart rate to either
side. The etiology of her syncopal event is not completely clear.
It appears that the patient does have a history of a witnessed
seizure but also has had syncopal events consistent with either
bradycardia or a vasovagal event.
DISPOSITION: The patient is discharged to home with plans for a
repeat 24 hour Holter as an outpatient. FOLLOW UP:
She will follow up with Dr. Caroyln Reidherd in the KTDUOO Clinic.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS include
aspirin one tablet po q d , Questran one package po q d , Pilocarpine
eye drops tid per eye , Betaxolol eye drops bid per eye ,
eye drops bid per eye , sublingual nitroglycerin prn chest pain ,
Naprosyn 375 mg tid prn.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: SYNCOPE.
OTHER DIAGNOSES: BORDERLINE TYPE II DIABETES , STABLE EXERTIONAL
ANGINA , AND GLAUCOMA.
QK828/9594
CHRISTY CLARDY , M.D. SP0 D: 9/25/92
Batch: 2154 Report: R1592M3 T: 6/6/92
Dictated By: BROADEN , CARIDAD VENITA REYNA
cc: 1. LEOLA MUSICH , M.D./DEPT. OF MED
2. CAROYLN REIDHERD , M.D./DEPT. OF MED