603229379 | PUO | 20240916 | | 790705 | 6/29/1997 12:00:00 AM | CELLULITIS RIGHT FOOT | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/14/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 11/17/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE.
PROCEDURES: 1. Third and fifth toe amputation with wound
debridement.
2. Lower extremity angiogram.
3. Right transmetatarsal amputation.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 45 year old
gentleman with a history of severe
peripheral vascular disease who is status post aorto-bifemoral and
bilateral femoral-popliteal bypass grafting , who originally
presented in August of this year with an ischemic right foot and
gangrenous right great toe and fourth toe. Arteriogram revealed a
popliteal stenosis below his bypass with very poor runoff. The
popliteal artery was angioplastied with good results and
restoration of palpable anterior tibial pulses at the mid calf.
The patient only had moderate perfusion of the right foot , however ,
and presented in August of this year for wound debridement and
fourth toe amputation. The patient re-presents with a poorly
healing fourth toe amputation site and wound cellulitis.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: He has poorly controlled insulin dependent
diabetes. He is status post myocardial
infarction in 1993 , 1996 and 1997. He has severe peripheral
vascular disease. He is status post bilateral femoral-popliteal
and bypass graft. He is status post aorto-bifemoral. He has a
history of coronary artery disease. He is status post coronary
artery bypass graft x three vessel. He has a history of congestive
heart failure , history of osteoarthritis.
MEDICATIONS: Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.day , Lasix 120 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , Zestril 50 mg p.o. q.day , aspirin 325 mg p.o.
q.day , insulin NPH 10 units q.a.m. , q.p.m. and insulin Regular
sliding scale.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Patient is afebrile. Temperature was 98.2 ,
blood pressure 100/80 , pulse 85 ,
respirations 16. He had saturation of 98% on room air. In
general , he is a white male in no acute distress. HEENT was
normocephalic , atraumatic. Pupils were equally reactive to light
and accommodation. Extraocular muscles were intact. Sclerae were
anicteric. There was no lymphadenopathy. Lungs were clear to
auscultation. Cardiac exam was regular rate and rhythm. Abdomen
was soft , nontender , nondistended , with normal active bowel sounds.
Neurologic exam was nonfocal. Extremities were without clubbing ,
cyanosis or edema. On vascular exam , patient had 3+ bilateral
femoral pulses , 2+ bilateral popliteal pulses. He had biphasic
dopplerable bilateral posterior tibial pulses and a monophasic
dopplerable right dorsalis pedis pulse and no dopplerable left
dorsalis pedis pulse. His right great toe had a black eschar on
the tip. His fourth toe amputation site was with purulent
drainage. His third toe was erythematous and tender to palpation.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the vascular service
for wound debridement and IV antibiotics. He was
initially evaluated by the cardiology service and endocrine
service. Patient was cleared by cardiology for the procedure and
was considered well managed medically in regard to his coronary
artery disease. In regard to patient's diabetes , he was initially
extremely brittle and requiring extensive fine tuning by the
endocrine service who , at the time of discharge , had his blood
sugars repeatedly under 200 , with easily achieved insulin regimen.
The patient was taken to the operating room initially on the 13 of June of
April where he underwent a right third and fifth toe amputation
with wound debridement. At the time of operation , purulent
drainage with necrotic regions of the bases of the third and fifth
toes were found. The wound was left open with packing , with
further plans for more formal TMA after adequate drainage of the
foot. The patient , from the beginning of the hospital course , was
started on IV vancomycin , levofloxacin and Flagyl which he
continued throughout his hospital course. The patient tolerated
this initial wound debridement and toe amputation without incident.
Please see dictated operative report for further details. The
patient underwent an arteriogram on the 30 of August of April which
revealed one vessel runoff via peroneal artery to an irregular
appearing posterior tibial artery. The tibial peroneal trunk and
the proximal peroneal artery were found to have high grade
stenoses. There were numerous collateral vessels to a dorsalis
pedis artery at the level of the ankle. Based on this arteriogram
result and his wound , patient was preop'd for a transmetatarsal
amputation on the 2 of June of April . It was recommended by the
vascular staff that transmetatarsal amputation was the only option
for proximal limb salvage. He was not found to have any
appropriate anatomy for further reconstruction from an arterial
standpoint. The patient was taken to the operating room on the
2 of June of April where he underwent a formal right transmetatarsal
amputation. The patient's wound was debrided back to the viable
tissue and was closed in a primary fashion. Please see dictated
operative report for further details. Patient tolerated the
procedure well without complications and was transported back to
the PACU and the floor in stable condition. Postoperatively , the
patient has required wound packing to a small portion of the wound
which was left open for drainage. Initially , the wound was
erythematous with minimal to moderate drainage. At the time of
discharge , the wound has become far less erythematous , far less
painful and without any drainage. It is thought at this time that
patient now had three weeks of IV antibiotics and is stable enough
to go home on a p.o. regimen. Patient will be discharged on p.o.
levofloxacin and clindamycin with b.i.d. wound packing by VNA
service. Patient is discharged to home in stable condition with
followup to be early this week with Dr. Derham . Patient is also
recommended to call his cardiologist for appointment in 1-2 weeks
and his primary care physician in 1-2 weeks as well.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.day ,
Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lasix 120 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , NPH insulin 14 units q.a.m. and 14 units q.p.m. , CZI
Regular insulin sliding scale before each meal , Zestril 50 mg p.o.
q.day , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Percocet 1-2 tabs p.o. q.3-4h.
p.r.n. pain , levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.day , clindamycin 300 mg
p.o. q.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
Dictated By: LORETTA GEMMELL , M.D. SW20
Attending: ROSSIE MANKOSKI , M.D. JF70  DW807/9848
Batch: 98607 Index No. N9WTO76JGL D: 5/28/97
T: 1/4/97