178751561 | PUO | 79638392 | | 037785 | 10/2/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/27/1992 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/27/1992
CHIEF COMPLAINT/HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 41
year old female who is status post
L5-S1 fusion in 22 of August , who complains of right greater than left
bilateral leg pain with moderate LS spine spasms in the same
distribution as before the first surgery ( S1 area ). She has had
epidural steroid injections during the past year and had no relief
of these symptoms. She is presently unable to work for the past 6
weeks. She has been on bedrest for most of the day. She has
minimal relief with non steroidals. She is here for a second
diskectomy after demonstration on CT of marked recurrence on the
right to just above the mid line. She donated 1 unit of autologous
blood. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Noteable for the patient having had
difficulty maintaining IV's in the past. She also had urinary
retention after her last surgery. She is otherwise healthy. PAST
SURGICAL HISTORY: Status post L5-S1 diskectomy in 3 of June status
post tubal ligation; status post cholecystectomy; C. section x 2
and tonsillectomy and appendectomy. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Percocet 4-8 per day. ALLERGIES: NKDA.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally. The heart exam was within
normal limits. The belly exam was benign. The orthopedic exam was
noteable for an old well healed surgical scar in the mid line of
the low back. She had a very limited range of motion of the back
secondary to pain. She was tender over L4-S1 centrally. She had
bilateral sciatic notch tenderness , right greater than left. She
had positive straight leg raising sign at 60 degrees on the right
and 80 degrees on the left. She had positive bowstring sign on the
right. She had decreased light touch sensation on the right
lateral thigh , lower leg and foot and otherwise was normal.
Reflexes demonstrated right 2+ at the knee and 2+ at the ankle
compared to 3+ at the knee on the left and 2+ of the ankle. The
toes were bilaterally downgoing. There was no clonus bilaterally.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was operated on on the day of
admission undergoing a re-do of L5-S1 disk and
L5-S1 posterior lateral fusion with right iliac crest bone graft
taken through the same incision. The patient tolerated this
procedure well. Postoperatively , her hospital course went as
follows by systems: 1 ) NEUROLOGIC-The patient continued to have
some degree of pain that was noted on weight bearing of the lateral
aspect of the right thigh but not progressing much further beyond
that towards the foot as it had preoperatively. The intensity of
this pain was also somewhat less than it was preoperatively. There
were no significant symptoms on the left. She also had the expected
surgical pain. 2 ) RESPIRATORY-There were no significant issues.
The patient did have the history of mild childhood asthma and
perioperatively she did demonstrate some end expiratory wheezes
that were treated with Ventolin and Albertol inhaler treatents.
These were resolved by the time of discharge. Her O2 saturations
were well maintained throughout her hospital stay. 3 )
CARDIAC-There were no significant issues. 4 ) GI/NUTRITIONAL-The
patient had no significant problems. She had a bowel movement
prior to discharge. Her diet was advanced without difficulty.
5 ) RENAL/ELECTROLYTE-The patient was able to void when her Foley
was discontinued on postoperative day 4. Electrolytes were followed
and treated on prn basis. 6 ) HEMOLOGIC-The patient required
transfusion of her 1 unit of autologous blood. Subsequently , with
the patient on Iron Gluconate and Colace , her hematocrit came from
25 after her unit of blood up to 29.1 on her last check prior to
discharge. She will be on iron for 1 month postoperatively. The
patient was maintained on compression boots postoperatively until
she was up and walking more independently. 7 ) INFECTIOUS
DISEASE-There were no significant itssues. 8 ) ORTHOPEDIC-Her
wound showed excellent signs of healing postoperatively. There was
no evidence of infection at any time and her flaps looked viable at
all times. Her postoperative neurologic status was as described
above. The patient was given an Orthomol brace which she is to
wear at all times whenever out of bed.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. RECURRENT RIGHT L5-S1 DISK.
2. HISTORY OF PHLEBITIS AND DIFFICULTY WITH
IV'S.
PROCEDURES: Re-do right L5-S1 diskectomy and L5-S1 posterolateral
fusion with right iliac crest bone graft on October ,
by Dr. Brooke Lemmen .
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Percocet 1-2 po q
4 hours prn , Iron Gluconate 325 mg po t.i.d. x 1
month , PeriColace 100 mg po q.i.d. x 1 month to be held for loose
stool , Voltaren 50 mg po t.i.d. prn. TREATMENTS/FREQUENCY: Brace
to be work whenever out of bed. CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
DISPOSITION: To home. FOLLOW UP CARE: With Dr. Lemmen .
WK373/5871
BROOKE D. LEMMEN , M.D. SG66 D: 7/18/92
Batch: 1031 Report: W4942X54 T: 9/13/92
Dictated By: DEJA KINTOPP , M.D.