488940606 | PUO | 19781692 | | 951619 | 8/27/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/8/1991 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/17/1991
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 41-year-old male
who presented to the Emergency Room
complaining of blue right toes. The patient has no known vascular
disease. Over the past two years , the patient has developed
progressive claudication. He currently is able to walk about one
block before having to stop. He was otherwise well until about one
and a half weeks prior to admission when , for two days after
cutting his toenails , he noted increasing pain and blue coloring of
his right fifth toe. He thought that he injured the toe when
cutting the nail. He cut the skin on the plantar side of the right
third toe accidently five days prior to admission. He then
presented with blue coloration of the third , fourth and fifth toes
and intense pain over the fifth toe. He has no history of erythema
extending up his foot or leg. He has no history of diabetes. No
fever or chills. No history of atrial arrhythmias. No heart
disease , syncopal episodes. No low back or buttock pain. No
erectile dysfunction. He has no history of an abdominal aortic
aneurysm. He is a smoker with two packs for 20 years. No history
of hypertension or hypercholesterolemia. He had no history of TIA ,
CVA , myocardial infarction or angina. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Varicose veins. MEDICATIONS: None. ALLERGIES: NO KNOWN DRUG
ALLERGIES.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission revealed the patient to be
afebrile and stable. Head exam was normal.
Neck exam was supple with full range of motion. Lungs were clear
bilaterally. Heart revealed a regular rate and rhythm , normal S1
and S2 , no CVA tenderness. Abdomen was obese , soft , no palpable
masses , normal bowel sounds. Groin showed no hernias. Pulses were
significant for 1+ dopplerable femorals bilaterally , 2+
dopplerable dorsalis pedis bilaterally , 1+ dopplerable posterior
tibial on the right , 2+ dopplerable posterior tibial on the left
and 2+ dopplerable popliteals. Rectal exam was guaiac positive
with some pain and no visible lesions. ABI was .66 of the dorsalis
pedis on the right , .44 of the dorsalis pedis on the left; .61
posterior tibial on the right and .66 posterior tibial on the left.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for intravenous
heparinization. He underwent an angiogram which
showed 90% stenosis of the iliac bifurcation on the right , greater
than 50% narrowing of the distal common iliac and diffuse narrowing
throughout the vessel. His SFA and popliteals were patent on the
right. On the left he had occlusion of the left common iliac with
reconstruction of the common femoral. His SFA was occluded
proximally with reconstitution at the adductor canal and one vessel
peroneal run off. His post angio creatinine was 1.1. Cardiology
was consulted and their impression was that he had severe bilateral
peripheral vascular disease with a question of an embolic event to
the right toe. They recommended that if surgery became necessary
that he had perioperative Nitropaste and check postoperative EKG's
and enzymes. He was sent home for follow-up in the clinic.
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS: On discharge included Vasotec , 5 mg
po q day; aspirin , one tablet per day; Nicorette gum
for smoking cessation.
IO582/2817
BUCK MOOSE , M.D. PZ17 D: 11/13/91
Batch: 3692 Report: Q0467J47 T: 2/3/91
Dictated By: DESIRAE MARCOTT , M.D.