859513400 | PUO | 12051989 | | 489152 | 10/15/1997 12:00:00 AM | R/O TUBERCULOSIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/15/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 5/25/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: HEMOPTYSIS.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: SCHIZOAFFECTIVE DISORDER.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 45 year-old male who
presents to the Pagham University Of Emergency Department with low back pain and a five day
history of hemoptysis. The patient has an extensive psychiatric
history and an apparent history of tuberculosis treated in 1987 for
one year ( confirmation of this fact is not found at the present
time ). The patient presents with a five day history of hemoptysis.
The patient notes that he has had blood tinged sputum and
occasional bright red blood for the past five days totalling about
1/8th of a cup a day. He denies any fevers , chills or other sputum
production , but he notes a positive cough. He is homeless and was
exposed to cold and rain during the past week. He has had no
tuberculosis follow-up since 1988. The patient also has
long-standing lower back pain. He had a previous accident where he
was pinned between two cars at age 17. He has had pain in his
lower lumbar spine and occasional sharp pain that radiates down
both legs. He notes no weakness in his lower extremities , no
incontinence. This pain has increased substantially over the past
two months. The patient has noted an extensive psychiatric
history , evidently followed by Dr. Brannigan at the Mi Cotco Wayne Stead Health Services at the Rons County Memorial Hospital ( number 731-9804. ) The
patient was apparently diagnosed with paranoid schizoid
disorder vs. bipolar vs. schizophrenia.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) Tuberculosis , status post treatment
possibly for one year in 1987 , though no
confirmation of this has been found. 2 ) Psychiatric disorder. 3 )
Status post cholecystectomy.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1 ) Prolixin 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 )
Depakote 500 mg p.o. q. AM , 1 , 000 mg
p.o. q.h.s. 3 ) Cogentin 1 mg p.o. b.i.d.
ALLERGIES: The patient had no known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs: Temperature 96.7 degrees ,
heart rate 100 , blood pressure 130/80. Head
and neck examination revealed that the pupils were equal , round and
reactive to light. Extraocular movements were intact. There was
no scleral icterus. Oropharynx was clear. Neck was supple without
any adenopathy , no jugular venous pressure was noted.
Cardiovascular examination was regular rate and rhythm with a two
out of six holosystolic murmur heard best at the apex , no S3 or S4.
Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. Abdomen was obese ,
soft , non-tender , positive bowel sounds. Extremities revealed no
clubbing , cyanosis or edema noted. There were good peripheral
pulses. On rectal examination , the patient had good tone and was
guaiac negative. Neurologically , the patient was intact. On
admission , the patient received a chest x-ray which showed a
possible ground glass infiltrate in the right medial segment of the
upper lung field approximately 1 cm in size , otherwise clear lung
fields.
LABORATORY: The patient's laboratory examinations on admission
were all within normal limits.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for rule out
tuberculosis and was subsequently kept in the
respiratory isolation room and serial induced sputums were sent for
culture and stain and noted to be negative for acid fast
bacilli or other signs of tuberculosis. The patient was also noted to have no
further signs of hemoptysis while he was in the
hospital and therefore his history of hemoptysis has not been
verified. The patient was very cooperative while in the hospital
and showed no signs of being febrile or other signs of active
infection. No other signs of pulmonary
infection were identified that could account for hemoptysis.
It also did not appear that the patient had any form of possible lung
malignancy because he did not report weight loss or other suggestive features
To further work-up this up however , the patient
received a spiral CT scan of his chest which showed no focal
abnormalities and was notable for clear lung fields and no signs of
tuberculosis. As this was the case , the patient was subsequently
discharged home having been ruled out for tuberculosis. Notable
also , his PPD was negative at 48 hours with a positive mumps and
Candida anergy panel also suggestive of not having tuberculosis.
The patient was evaluated by Psychiatry while inhouse who was in
touch with his primary psychiatrist. The patient was continued on
his medications and noted to be quite stable while he was in the
hospital. He was deemed not medically able to make his own
decisions on admission and was therefore not allowed to leave
when the patient tried to leave on the night of admission. He was
very cooperative however over the course of his admission and was
followed by Psychiatry who have arranged follow-up with him upon
discharge. The patient was seen by Social Work who is actively
working with him to establish a shelter or other place to stay upon
discharge. The patient is amendable to this and anxious to receive
assistance. The patient was subsequently discharged on July , 1997 in good condition with the name and addresses of possible
places to stay and close follow-up with a social worker and his
psychiatrist.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1 ) Cogentin 0.1 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 )
Depakote 100 mg p.o. q. AM , 200 mg p.o.
q.h.s. 3 ) Prolixin. 4 ) Tylenol p.r.n. back pain.
Dictated By: SANA L. ALBOR , M.D. XX93
Attending: MELISA FRANCES VARGO , M.B. SK77  FR961/5290
Batch: 04897 Index No. MEAPNU5C8M D: 11/5/97
T: 8/8/97