842385275 | PUO | 27156611 | | 4239591 | 1/25/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/3/2003 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
CHIEF COMPLAINT: At the time of admission , altered mental status.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 73-year-old man with a
history of prior delirious episodes as
well as a history of chronic diarrhea who , on the night before
admission , was noted to no longer recognize people at home and to
be confused about his location. On the morning of admission , the
patient had had intractable explosive diarrhea. He does have a
history of chronic diarrhea but the diarrhea on the date of
admission was significantly more severe than usual.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denied any chest pain , nausea ,
vomiting , urinary tract infection , or decrease
in his p.o. intake.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for congestive heart failure
with an ejection fraction of 50% , coronary
artery disease status post five vessel coronary artery bypass graft
in October 2002 , myelodysplastic syndrome , peripheral vascular
disease , gastrointestinal bleed status post right colectomy ,
prostate cancer status post transurethral resection of the
prostate , and macular degeneration.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: At the time of admission included opium
tincture , aspirin , Lomotil , Lasix , Ditropan ,
Lopid , Zocor , Atapryl , and iron.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: At the time of admission , patient was
afebrile , his heart rate was 60 , his blood
pressure was 145/68 , and he was saturating 95% on room air. His
physical examination was notable for a jugular venous pressure at 5
cm , moist mucous membranes , and soft , nontender , nondistended
abdominal examination. On rectal examination , the patient was
noted to have guaiac positive brown stool.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Head CT at the time of admission was
negative for any acute change , chest x-ray
was negative for any evidence of pneumonia , and the patient's EKG
was reviewed and shown to be without change from prior studies.
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Neurological - The patient's mental status
improved quickly on admission. As noted above ,
his head CT was negative. It was thought that his mental status
changes were likely secondary to dehydration and were resolved at
the time of discharge.
2. Pulmonary - During resuscitation of the patient's dehydration ,
he developed an O2 requirement although chest x-ray did not show
any evidence for fluid overload or infiltrates. Occasional wheezes
were appreciated on examination and the patient's symptoms improved
significantly with occasional nebulizer treatments of Albuterol and
Atrovent. At the time of discharge , the patient was oxygenating
well.
3. Cardiovascular - There were no acute cardiac issues during this
hospitalization. Patient's losartan was held at admission given
his acute renal failure but other outpatient medications were
continued.
4. Hematology - The patient had a history of MDS and was a patient
of Dr. Harajly . At the time of admission , the patient's hematocrit
dropped 10 points but was thought to be likely due to hydration.
Since that time , the patient's hematocrit has remained stable at
35.
5. Infectious disease - At the time of admission , the patient's
blood cultures , urine cultures , and stool cultures were all
negative. Chest x-ray on January , 2003 was clear. It was felt
that the most likely etiology of his acute worsening of his
diarrhea was viral gastroenteritis. He also did receive a 7-day
course of levofloxacin and Flagyl for empiric abdominal coverage.
The patient remained afebrile since the time of his antibiotics.
6. Gastrointestinal - The patient is status post right
hemicolectomy. He has a long history of diarrhea and presented to
this admission with explosive diarrhea and guaiac positive brown
stool. At the time of admission , Kaopectate and Lomotil were
started. On July , 2003 , he was noted to have increased
distention but a KUB was negative at that time for partial
obstruction or impaction. There were concerns that the patient's
abdominal symptoms might be secondary to ischemia so an MRI was
obtained which showed proximal disease in the SMA , IMA , and celiac
but overall with good distal flow. An abdominal CT was obtained
which showed a thick small bowel and dilated gallbladder with
stranding but no evidence for ischemia. Gastrointestinal
consultation was obtained and on November , 2003 , and
esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed which revealed grade IV
gastritis. As a result , the patient was started on Nexium 40
b.i.d.
7. Renal - The patient has a history of chronic renal
insufficiency. The entire hospitalization , his BUN was in the
fifties with a creatinine of 2.2. His FENA was less than 0.1% and
the patient was thought to be extremely intervascularly dry. With
gentle hydration , the patient's creatinine eventually improved to
1.9 at the time of this dictation.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: Included esophagogastroduodenoscopy
revealing gastritis as discussed above.
DISPOSITION: Diet includes that the patient is discharged on a
full p.o. diet. He was also instructed to supplement
his diet with high nutrition Boost shakes. Nutrition followed the
patient closely during the admission and thought that he would need
close follow-up as an outpatient for his nutrition status.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Will be dictated in an Addendum to this
Discharge Summary.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will follow-up with Dr. Kush following
discharge.
Dictated By: SOLOMON LIESELOTTE HALFACRE , M.D. BT540
Attending: QUINN J. KUSH , M.D. QQ9  QK746/663660
Batch: 7535 Index No. RQMP6S9FG2 D: 2/15/03
T: 2/15/03