322886432 | PUO | 28967004 | | 3162069 | 7/18/2006 12:00:00 AM | HEMATURIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/26/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 5/19/2006
ATTENDING: REMLEY , EVALYN M.D.
ADMISSION CONDITION: Stable.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Foley trauma.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 61-year-old male with
hypotension , diabetes , and obesity. He was in his usual state of
health until November , 2006 , when he had a sudden loss of function
of his lower upper extremity and lower right extremity. He was
admitted to Pagham University Of Neurology Service , where
an MRI revealed a right internal capsule lacunar stroke. He was
out of the TPA window. As a result , he was treated with aspirin
and statin. An echo showed a normal EF and no evidence of
thrombosis. There was no evidence of a-fib. His hospital
course , however , was complicated with Foley trauma and hematuria
for which he required continuous bladder irrigation. The patient
also developed a UTI by UA , but not a positive culture data. The
patient was seen briefly by Urology , who recommended continued
bladder irrigation and followup. He was then treated with
ceftazidime x3 and the patient was discharged to rehab on November
with a chronic bladder irrigation and urology followup for a UT
urogram.
The patient did fairly well in rehab until the day prior to
admission , which was on November , 2006 , after one day of being
discharged from rehab when , during a physical therapy session ,
the patient accidentally manipulated the Foley catheter causing
increased pain and worsening hematuria. So , then the patient
came to the ED the next day after the patient was already
discharged. The patient came to the ED on November , 2006. The
patient was hemodynamically stable but complained of severe
pelvic pain and received 10 mg of IV morphine , Dilaudid ,
Percocet , Valium and Ativan. The patient then became
increasingly sedated and developed an O2 requirement , and was
eventually on lung non-rebreather. By the time he was admitted
to the medicine floor , the patient was very sedated and difficult
to arouse. ABGs showed a 7.25/71/90 and he received 0.04 mg of
Narcan. He immediately awoke; however , then continued to become
sedated within 30 minutes. As a result , the patient was sent to
ICU on May , 2006. The patient had systolic blood pressure in
the 60s and was given Narcan and IV fluids. However , the
systolic pressure only responded to 90s. The patient also
complained of diffuse abdominal pain. However , KUB showed a
nonspecific bowel gas pattern. The patient was required to
continue Narcan boluses and his ABG started to show improvement.
It was 7.33/56/113 on 100% non-rebreather. During the overnight
ICU stay , the patient did very well. Eventually , the patient was
hemodynamically stable with systolic pressure maintaining very
well over 100 with a JVP over 10. The patient was more awake the
next day after admission to ICU overnight.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM
Cardiovascular: As a result , the patient was hypotensive on the
floor at the beginning due to being over-narcotized in the ED.
Systolic pressure dropped to the lowest in the 60s. However ,
after the ICU stay , as well as boluses with Narcan IV fluids , the
patient's blood pressure returned to be stable , with systolic
blood pressure above 100. The patient's echo was also normal the
week before and there were no signs of systolic dysfunction. The
patient was continued on aspirin and statin and , after the ICU
stay , the patient was transferred back to the floor and the
patient's cardiovascular was stable and the patient's
antihypertensive regimen was resumed. The patient's heart rate
was usually maintained between 50 to 67. At times , the patient's
Lopressor has to be held due to the low heart rate. As a result ,
Lopressor was titrated down from 25 mg to 12.5 mg b.i.d. This
happened during the hospital stay. The patient also resumed back
on his captopril 6.25 mg t.i.d. The patient was admitted to the
floor on telemetry and throughout the 3-4 days prior to
discharge , the patient was stable on the floor and remained
cardiovascularly and hemodynamically stable. The patient was
continued on statin and aspirin.
Pulmonary: The patient has weaned off the non-rebreather after
the stay from ICU and has been satting well between 96-97% on 3-4
liters. The patient's lungs have remained cleared and the
patient's Lasix has resumed at 20 mg daily due to the patient
having a negative Lasix of 40 mg daily. The patient was resumed
back to his original regimen upon discharge. The patient has had
minimal crackles during his stay here in the hospital.
Infectious disease: The patient was given vancomycin and
ceftazidime in the setting of hypotension and concern for
possible sepsis at the beginning. However , due to no growth to
date with the blood cultures , the infectious etiology of
hypotension is unlikely. As a result , antibiotics were not
continued when the patient was transferred back to the floor.
Urology: The patient continued to have hematuria upon admission
to the MICU , likely secondary to Foley trauma. The patient
continued to have chronic continued bladder irrigation for the
following two days after discharge from the MICU. Under the
evaluation by the urologist , the patient does not need chronic
bladder irrigation anymore. The urologist suggested that the
bladder has actually stopped bleeding with clear urine drained.
Of note , the patient was very agitated at one point on the second
day upon discharge from the MICU and pulled the Foley out , which
created a trauma to the bladder neck. However , the bleeding
stopped very quickly and the urologist placed a second Foley into
the bladder without any complications. Urology recommended that
the patient be followed by Dr. Lorean Kadow as an outpatient. In
their opinion , the patient does not have any urological symptoms ,
and the patient should have the Foley for the following 4-5
weeks. Per Urology , the patient may not be able to control his
bladder due to the stroke that the patient had the week before ,
so the patient will need chronic Foley for the next 4-5 weeks
until followup with the urologist in the office. The patient's
hematocrit has been stable at 29 throughout the hospital stay.
Endocrinology: The patient has a history of diabetes and
continued to have NPH and subcutaneous heparin.
Renal: The patient had prerenal azotemia at one point prior to
transfer to the floor due to hypotension. However , the patient's
creatinine recovered dramatically from 1.5 to 0.7 upon discharge.
The patient also had an obstruction in which the patient was
unable to void , which created a postrenal azotemia at one time ,
but both prerenal and postrenal azotemia have resolved upon
discharge.
Neuro: Mental status intact. The patient has been doing very
throughout the two days prior to discharge. The patient was
alert and oriented x3. However , the patient occasionally
complained about the leg pain from the side in which the patient
has lost motor function. The patient remained to have left
hemiparesis and required 100 mg Neurontin t.i.d. for pain control
regimen. Otherwise , the patient was evaluated by both , will be
followed by Neurology on April , 2006.
Diet: The patient had normal cardiac diet and the patient will
continue on the diet when the patient is discharged to rehab.
Prophylaxis: The patient should resume his Lovenox 40 mg daily
and the patient should have aspirin and Nexium for prophylaxis.
Psychiatry: The patient was given Ambien 10 mg p.o. at bedtime
for sleep and he responded very well with the regimen. The
patient was also given Seroquel for anti-anxiety medication.
MEDICATIONS:
1. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.
2. Captopril 6.25 mg p.o. daily.
3. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4. Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneous daily.
5. Pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6. Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily.
7. Lantus 35 units subcutaneous each morning covered with a RISS
sliding scale.
8. Lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.
9. Zocor 40 mg p.o. each night time.
10. Ambien 10 mg p.o. each night time.
11. Neurontin 100 mg t.i.d.
ALLERGIES: No known allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient used to live in Fage Blvd. , Ral Pa Worth with his
daughter , but now with his stroke , the patient will stay in
rehab.
FAMILY HISTORY: Diabetes and history of stroke.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Tylenol 1 gm p.o. q.i.d.
2. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.
3. Duoneb 3/0.5 mg inhalant form q.4h. p.r.n. wheezing.
4. Bacitracin and neomycin for the topical t.i.d.
5. Bacitracin on the urinary meatus due to the continued use of a
Foley , topical b.i.d.
6. Captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d. ( hold is systolic pressure is
less than 95 ).
7. Nexium 20 mg p.o. daily.
8. Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily. We did not resume the patient's home
regimen of Lasix and patient's discharge medication will continue
to be Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily.
9. Insulin aspartate 8 mg subcutaneous AC and hold if the patient
is NPO.
10. Novolog sliding scale.
11. Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
12. Nicotine patch 21 mg daily.
13. Seroquel 25 mg p.o. q.6h.
14. Zocor 40 mg p.o. bedtime.
15. Ambien 10 mg p.o. bedtime.
eScription document: 6-7998137 PSSten Tel
Dictated By: LAPATRA , LETA
Attending: REMLEY , EVALYN
Dictation ID 6315758
D: 10/10/06
T: 10/10/06