405012066 | PUO | 35123591 | | 7161873 | 6/7/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/19/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: BINGMAN , MASON M.D.
SERVICE: Surgical ICU.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Perforated colon status post colectomy.
ACTIVE PROBLEMS LIST:
1. Status post colectomy , perforation of colon.
2. Coronary artery disease.
3. Congestive heart failure secondary to Adriamycin.
4. Atrial fibrillation
5. Respiratory failure status post tracheostomy.
6. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( steroid dependent ).
7. Pseudomonas pneumonia.
8. Chronic pain.
9. Chronic renal insufficiency.
10. Steroid dependent.
11. Perforated colonic diverticula.
12. Sepsis.
13. Anxiety with adjustment disorder.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Coronary artery disease as above.
2. Congestive heart failure , ejection fraction 30% , secondary to
ischemic cardiomyopathy and Adriamycin toxicity.
3. Atrial fibrillation ( paroxysmal ).
4. Nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.
5. Hypertension.
6. Steroid-dependent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
7. Staphylococcus bacteremia.
8. Acute on chronic renal failure.
9. Leg blisters.
10. Transient ischemic attacks.
11. Gout.
12. Cholecystectomy.
13. Appendectomy.
14. Testicular cancer status post chemotherapy.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies , history of Achilles tendon
rupture with levofloxacin.
MEDICATIONS:
1. Amiodarone , 200 mg daily , T-tube.
2. Peridex , 15 mL orally b.i.d.
3. Digoxin , 0.0625 mg , T-tube q.o.d.
4. Pepcid 20 mg T-tube b.i.d.
4. Folate , 1 mg , T-tube daily.
5. Heparin , 5000 units subcutaneously t.i.d.
6. NPH , 9 units subcutaneously q.a.m.
7. Insulin regular , sliding scale q.4h.
8. Prednisone , 5 mg , T-tube q.a.m.
9. Multivitamin daily.
10. Sarna topically daily.
11. Nystatin suspension 5 mL PO q.i.d.
12. Thiamine , 100 mg , T-tube daily.
13. Flovent , 88 mcg MDI b.i.d.
14. Collagenase topically daily.
15. Combivent , 2 puffs MDI q.i.d.
16. Albuterol , 2 to 4 puffs q.i.d. p.r.n.
17. Darbepoetin alpha 100 mcg subcutaneously every week.
18. Xenaderm topically b.i.d.
19. Ativan NG tube 0.521 mg q.6h. p.r.n. anxiety.
20. Trazodone 50 mg PO q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia.
21. Oxycodone 1 mg/mL , 10 mg solution via T-tube q.4h. p.r.n.
pain.
HOSPITAL COURSE: This is a 50-year-old man who was admitted to
Osri Medical Center on March , 2005 , with respiratory failure
and fever diagnosed with pneumonia and COPD flare. He was
started empirically on antibiotics. Sputum culture was positive
for Pseudomonas and treated with ceftazidime and levofloxacin.
Also , noted at Osri Medical Center to have 4/4 blood cultures
positive for coagulation-negative Staphylococcus. He was placed
on vancomycin. During the course of this hospital stay , he had
other medical issues including: Non-ST elevation myocardial
infarction. Also noted to have upper gastrointestinal bleed due
to supratherapeutic INR. Also had acute on chronic renal failure
with a creatinine of 7.7 , thought to be due to IV contrast. He
was transferred to Totin Hospital And Clinic ICU after going into
respiratory distress at Merla Medical Center , for which he was intubated.
He was continued on antibiotics at Re Health .  In
the lakesmi sonno memorial hospital surgical ICU at the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of , he was also noted to have
an improvement in his acute renal failure with his creatinine
improving to 2.0 range. With IV fluids , his non-ST elevation MI
appeared to be resolving; however , was noted to have ongoing
fevers despite antibiotics. Noted on abdominal CT to have free
air. He was taken to the operating room on June , 2005 ,
and had sigmoid colectomy with colostomy and he remained
intubated postoperatively , and was transferred to Sst.co Virg Co Surgical
ICU. Postoperatively , he was continued on broad-spectrum
antibiotics including vancomycin , ceftazidime , and was continued
on fluconazole for fungemia. Intraoperatively , he was noted to
have perforation in his sigmoid colon. He in the ICU , required
Levophed and vasopressin. The patient was noted to have ongoing
respiratory failure. He required reintubation on October ,
2005 , after a brief period of extubation. He returned to the
operating room on October , 2005 , where he had an ileostomy ,
T-tube placement , and a tracheostomy. In addition , his abdomen
was explored and adhesions were lysed. Postoperatively , he was
noted to have further improvement of his renal failure. He was
noted to have improvement in acidosis; however , had ongoing slow
wean off the ventilator. He was noted to have on followup CT to
have intraabdominal fluid collections along with his daily
fevers. On January , 2005 , he had a CT-guided drainage and
placement of a drain for one of these fluid collections. He had
some ongoing improvement and was continued on vancomycin , Flagyl ,
fluconazole , and ceftazidime post procedurally. Repeat cultures
of sputum yielded ongoing Pseudomonas in the sputum sensitive to
ceftazidime. Also noted to have Aspergillus in his sputum.
Thought to have possible colonization of his airways. On
followup CT , he was noted to have ongoing fluid collection as
well as daily fevers. He was discontinued on his central lines
and had a change-out of his arterial line. He also obtained a
tagged white blood cell scan , which revealed an area of
enhancement in his right lower quadrant consistent with possible
abscess; however , this patient had decreasing frequency of fevers
with discontinuation of lines and continuation of antibiotics. Moreover , the
area of enhancement on the tagged cell scan did not correlate with a
significant fluid collection on abdominal CT. After consultation with the
Infectious
Disease Service , Interventional Radiology Service , and the Surgical Service , it
was decided that there would be no intervention done on this
collection at this time. Otherwise , the patient now is starting
PO and is having ongoing low-grade temperatures , but clinically
improving. From the respiratory standpoint , was liberated from mechanical
prior to discharge from the ICU.
LABORATORY DATA: White cell count 16 , 000 , hematocrit 27 ,
platelets 443. Chem 7: Sodium 134 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 95 ,
bicarbonate 28 , BUN 36 , creatinine 1.7 , calcium 9.1. PT 14.9 ,
INR 1.2 , PTT 34.1.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: This is a 50-year-old man with history of
coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease , chronic renal insufficiency , who
is status post colectomy with ileostomy secondary to perforated
sigmoid colon , status post tracheostomy for respiratory failure ,
prolonged ICU course secondary to pneumonia , sepsis , acute on
chronic renal failure , and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
Neurological: The patient is now off sedative drips. He is
alert and oriented and has chronic pain secondary to degenerative
lower back disease; however , his pain has been well controlled
with his current regimen. Psychiatric consult was obtained and
he is noted to have an adjustment disorder with anxiety.
Plan is to continue oxycodone as needed and continue Ativan as
needed.
Cardiovascular: Status post non-ST elevation myocardial
infarction , congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of
30% , has had no further signs of pulmonary edema by x-ray or by
clinical symptoms. He is off pressors. He has been
hemodynamically stable and in normal sinus rhythm.
Plan is to continue amiodarone via T tube and continue digoxin.
We will diurese with Lasix as needed to keep I's and O's even.
Respiratory: Continues to be slow steroid wean. Liberated from mechanical
ventilation prior to transfer out of the ICU. S/p tracheostomy , history
chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease , completing course of Pseudomonas pneumonia
treatments on ceftazidime.
Gastrointestinal: Continues to be on tube feeds , goal rate. We
will start advancing PO diet as tolerated with a plan to wean
tube feeds as the patient is able to tolerate further PO's. We
will plan to start PO medications as tolerated.
FEN/GU: Chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine 1.5
to 1.7. Acute renal failure , resolved. He has been having good
urine output with no major electrolyte abnormalities. We will
continue to diurese with Lasix as needed to keep I's and O's
even.
Endocrine: This patient remains on insulin sliding scale. We
will titrate to keep euglycemic.
Heme: The patient has been anemic with hematocrits in the mid
20s and has been stable , likely due to nutrition and anemia of
chronic disease. We will continue to watch hematocrit on the
floor and continue DVT prophylaxis.
ID: Currently on day #19 of ceftazidime of 21. The patient has
been doing well off vancomycin , fluconazole , and Flagyl. He has
been having low-grade temperatures , but improved from the last
several weeks. We will continue to monitor JP output as well as
to follow clinically. He is noted to have an ongoing fluid
collection in his abdomen and may warrant a followup CT at some
point in the future. Transferred to floor with cardiac
monitoring.
DISPOSITION: This patient's condition is stable.
eScription document: 5-3468483 ISSten Tel
Dictated By: KATCSMORAK , CARRI
Attending: BINGMAN , MASON
Dictation ID 0074696
D: 7/20/05
T: 7/20/05