874486955 | PUO | 72680439 | | 621733 | 7/8/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/11/1994 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 2/10/1994
PRINCIPLE DIAGNOSIS: 1. BRADYARRHYTHMIA.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: 1. SYNCOPE.
PROCEDURES: Pacemaker insertion , 24 of November .
IDENTIFICATION: Sixty year old black female who has a chief
complaint of dizziness and syncope. The source of
history was the patient , who was a moderate historian and the old
chart. HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: According to the patient , she
first presented to the medical system in 1989. At that time she
was walking at home and became dizzy. She was taken to Pe Valley Health in Dence She was told that she had a heart
attack and was placed on a monitor when she was noted to have an
episode of asystole on the monitor. This led to emergent pacer
insertion. After pacer placement , the dizziness never recurred
until a few months ago. This led to hospitalization on May , 1994
at Pagham University Of .  She was seen by the pacer service
who interrogated her pacer and found it functioning normally.
However , the pacer lead type ( MECHRONIC 4012 ) is felt to have a
high failure rate , necessitating a new pacer insertion.
Unfortunately , the patient left AMA before the procedure could be
performed.
Today , the patient got out of bed and preceded to the bathroom ,
where she had a normal bowel movement without any symptoms. She
got up from the toilet and while walking back to bed became dizzy
again. She subsequently passed out for an undetermined time.
After waking up she knew exactly where she was and had no
post-ictal symptoms. She fell to the floor , but denies any trauma.
She also denied urinary/fecal incontinence during this episode.
She adamantly denies chest pain , shortness of breath or significant
palpitations. She presented today to the ER for evaluation.
Medications on admission - None. No known drug allergies. PAST
MEDICAL HISTORY: None. HABITS: No tobacco , no alcohol. SOCIAL
HISTORY: Unemployed , divorced , mother of six children. FAMILY
HISTORY: Positive for hypertension. No seizure disorder in the
family and her mother and two aunts have pacemakers inserted.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Admission - Morbidly obese black female in
no acute distress without complaints
presently. T 98.3 , blood pressure lying down 120/80 , sitting up
133/82 , heart rate lying down 72 , heart rate sitting up 80 ,
respiratory rate is 16 , O2 sat is 98% on room air. HEENT -
Anicteric. Clear oropharynx. Neck is supple. Lungs are clear.
Back - Without spinal or cvat. Cardiovascular - Regular rate and
rhythm. No jugular venous distention. Normal S1 and S2 , no S3 or
S4 , no murmurs. Carotids with normal upstrokes and no bruits.
Abdomen - Positive bowel sounds , obese , soft , nontender , no
organomegaly. Extremities - No pitting edema. 2+ radial and DP
pulses bilaterally. Neuro - Alert and oriented times three.
Cranial nerves III-XII are tested and are intact. Sensation is
grossly intact. Motor strength - Normal gait , not tested.
Reflexes are 1-2+ patella and biceps reflexes , symmetrically.
LABORATORY DATA: K 3.9 , mag 2.1 , Hematocrit 38.9. Chest x-ray
is negative. Costophrenic angles were not
visualized well secondary to her large habitus. EKG showed normal
sinus rhythm at 72 , first degree AV block , PR interval of 0.30 ,
left ventricular hypertrophy.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the unit. Her story
was most consistent with an arrhythmia induced
syncope. Considering her history , it was felt that she certainly
had a symptomatic bradycardic episode. Because her current
pacemaker had a very high failure rate , we recommended changing the
pacemaker and the patient agreed. She was placed on the cardiac
monitor without any event over her hospital stay.
As part of her prepacer work-up , she had a right upper extremity
venogram which showed patent vessels on that side. The patient had
a pacemaker insertedon 24 of November in the OR without any complications.
The reason it was done in the OR was because of her large size and
the strength of the table. After pacer insertion , the patient did
very well without any further symptoms of dizziness or syncope. She
was discharged to home the following day in good condition.
DISPOSITION: Discharge medications - Keflex 500 mg q8h for nine
doses , Percocet 1-2 p.o. q6h p.r.n. pain. Follow-up
will be in the Pacemaker Clinic.
Dictated By: IRVING ESCALANTE , M.D. FB73
Attending: LEOLA C. MUSICH , M.D. AW13  GV931/6913
Batch: 749 Index No. QMNG3O06FG D: 9/20/94
T: 9/20/94