015243975 | PUO | 83968701 | | 923689 | 1/3/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/28/1994 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 8/12/1994
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: LEFT LEG WOUND INFECTION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Peshlakai is a 67-year-old female
with a history of diabetes , who
underwent a coronary artery bypass graft on 26 of October for unstable
angina with non-Q wave myocardial infection. She did well
postoperatively and was discharged home in good condition. About
two weeks after her operation , she began to notice some swelling
and erythema around her left thigh saphenous vein graft harvest
site. This increased and she came to the Emergency Room on
17 of March .  She denied any fever , chills , night sweats , nausea , or
vomiting. She stated there was a small amount of purulent
appearing liquid draining from the wound.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for noninsulin dependent
diabetes , hypertension , coronary artery disease ,
hypercholesterolemia , supraventricular tachycardia , hiatal hernia ,
osteoarthritis , chronic right ear abscess , and schizophrenia.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for coronary artery bypass
grafting x3 with the left internal mammary artery to the left
anterior descending artery , and saphenous vein grafts to the
posterior descending artery and the obtuse marginal artery.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 100.4 , with her other vital
signs stable. Her heart rate was regular
with a regular rhythm and no murmur. Her heart rate was 98 , and
her blood pressure was 104/58. Her lungs were clear to
auscultation , and her sternum was stable. Her left thigh was
erythematous around the wound , with a large area of induration.
She had good distal pulses , and her left foot was warm. The thigh
wound had an area of necrotic appearing skin.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The staples were removed in this area ,
and a large amount of pus was extracted.
Some of this was sent for culture. The areas of necrotic skin were
debrided and after copious irrigation , the wound was packed with
sterile gauze soaked in normal saline. She was started on
Vancomycin and gentamicin intravenously , and was admitted to the
hospital for IV antibiotics and dressing changes. Her cultures
grew out staph aureus which was methacillin resistant , but
sensative to gentamicin and vancomycin , as well as citrobacter ,
which was sensative to gentamicin and vancomycin.
She remained hemodynamically stable , and her white count came down
from 14 to a stable level of 7-8. Her temperature on the second
day after admission was 99.6 , and never rose higher than that. The
erythema in the area of her wound decreased markedly , and she
remained pain free. The wound began to granulate very well , and
the lower portion of the wound remained clean and dry , while the
upper portion required three different debridements over her
hospital course. After this , however , the entire wound remained
clean and well granulated.
The dressing changes were continued and the patient was screened
for the Rehabilitation Service to follow up with some strengthening
and IV antibiotics and dressing changes. A follow-up culture was
obtained after one of the dressing changes , which grew out e. coli ,
which was sensative to Cipro , ofloxacin , citrobacter , and
enterococci. All species have been sensitive to ciprofloxacin.
The patient was changed from vancomyin and gentamicin to vancomyin
IV and ciprofloxacin p.o. She will receive a total of 14 days of
vancomycin , and seven days of ciprofloxacin , after seven days of
gentamicin.
She was accepted for rehabilitation by Todler Fieldount General Medical Center , and on 25 of September , she was discharged to Todler Fieldount General Medical Center in good condition. She will continue on an
1800 calorie ADA diet , and her discharge medications include
aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day , atenolol 100 mg q. day , Librium 10 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , Cipro 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. x3 days , vancomycin 1000 mg
IV q. 24 hours x3 days , Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , iron sulfate 300
mg p.o. t.i.d. , Verapamil 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Prolixin LA 12.5 mg
intramuscularly q. two weeks. She should have dressing changes
with wet to dry normal saline gauze to her left thigh wound three
times each day , as well as wound inspections to make sure that it
continues healing as well as it is now. She will follow-up with
Dr. Barrette and with her own cardiologist.
Dictated By: ERMA BESS , M.D. RR65
Attending: GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D. GV1  TN580/9958
Batch: 222 Index No. BYPF336UBI D: 9/6/94
T: 9/6/94
CC: 1. FAX TO TODLER FIELDOUNT GENERAL MEDICAL CENTER