425993188 | PUO | 70424113 | | 8991729 | 8/14/2004 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/14/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: ALETA KERTESZ MD
INDICATION FOR SURGERY:
Coronary artery disease.
HISTORY OF PRESENTING ILLNESS:
The patient is a 55-year-old female with a past medical history
of hypertension and diabetes who presented to the ED with two-day
history of epigastric pain and chest pain radiating to her left
arm. The patient states that she had been having on and off
chest pain since about 6/8 and had been diagnosed previously
with gastritis. She presented to the Meon Wellfor Pipebocock Medical Center in April and
again with complaints of chest pain and epigastric pain. At that
time , she was found to have extreme PDA defect by MIBI. She was
also tested and thought to have H. pylori gastritis which
apparently was causing her chronic chest pain. On the day of
admission , the patient began to have chest pain which was not
relieved by Maalox. She described the pain as peristernal
accompanied by nausea and vomiting and some diaphoresis. It was
relieved in the ED by two sublingual nitroglycerins. She had
negative cardiac enzymes x 2 and was admitted for a workup.
Repeat stress MIBI showed reversible LA and circumflex defects
and an EF of 50%. Cardiac cath revealed three-vessel disease and
the patient is now scheduled for CABG. The patient originally
speaks Creole; however , she can speak and understand English.
PREOPERATIVE CARDIAC STATUS:
The patient has a history of class III angina that has not had
any recently accelerated angina , and there is history of class
III heart failure. She is in normal sinus rhythm right now.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Hypertension , diabetes insulin dependent with history of obesity
with gastritis , neuropathy , and retinopathy secondary to
diabetes , and received immunization as a child in Gu Ra Ven
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
None found.
FAMILY HISTORY:
No family history of coronary artery disease.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
Emigrated from Ma Wood And in 1993 , has full freedom , lives with two
daughters. The patient is an employed housekeeper at an outside
hospital.
ALLERGIES:
Metformin caused GI intolerance.
MEDICATIONS:
Lopressor 25 p.o. q.i.d. , captopril 6.25 p.o. t.i.d. , aspirin 650
mg q.d. , Lovenox 100 sq. b.i.d. , atorvastatin 800 mg p.o. q.d. ,
NPH 60 units q.a.m. and 20 units q.p.m. , and Nexium 20 mg p.o.
q.d.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
The patient is 5 feet 1 inch tall , 89 kilos , temperature of 98
degree Fahrenheit , heart rate of 71 per minute , and blood
pressure left arm 112/68. HEENT: PERRLA. Dentition is without
evidence of any infection and no carotid bruits. Chest: No
incision. Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm. Pulses 2+
in carotids , radials , and femorals bilaterally. Dorsalis pedis
1+ bilaterally , posterior tibial nonpalpable but dopplerable on
the left and 1+ on the right. Allen's test of the left upper
extremity was normal. Pulse oximetry use right upper extremity
was normal. Pulse oximetry use right slightly sluggish ; the
patient is right handed. Respiratory: Breath sounds clear
bilaterally. Abdomen: Soft , no incisions , no masses noted.
Rectal: Deferred for now. Extremities: Venous striatus
discoloration bilateral lower extremities. Neuro: Alert and
oriented. No focal deficits , 98% on room air.
LABS ON ADMISSION:
Sodium of 136 , potassium of 4.3 , chloride of 101 , bicarb ??___??
Repeat INR , Echocardiogram showed an EF of 36% with mild mitral
??___?? ST elevation ??____?? Moderate LV function was noted.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
??___?? within normal limits so vascular causes of pain in the
right lower extremity was ruled out and they recommended leg
elevation as part of the treatment so Orthopedics was consulted
to delineate the reason for the excruciating right lower
extremity pain which is still pending.
Cardiovascular: She is on Lopressor and captopril , and the
patient apparently had an inferior wall MI postop. Reason seems
to be poor targets , CPK and MBs were cycled continuously for
three more days in the ICU. The MBs finally started trending
down on day #3 with a peak of 140. The CPKs started trending
down along with the MB as high as 2600 , but on day #5 the CK
started rising again to touch a high level of 5000 which was
being worked up at the time of transfer. Otherwise , she is on
captopril , Lopressor , and doxycycline. Interventional Cardiology
is following her and recommended heparin for a possible
microvascular occlusion in the lower extremities and she was
started on heparin on day #5.
Respiratory: No issues. Extubated expeditiously and she was
weaned from oxygen at the time of transfer.
GI: Taking p.o. and tolerating it well.
Renal: Had issues with urinary infection before , and she had a
blocked Foley on the day of transfer which was flushed and urine
output was normal after that and she got a new Foley after that
and was noted to have a lot of sediments in the urine at that
time which was sent for UA which is still pending at the time of
transfer.
Endocrine: She is a diabetic and Diabetes Service were on board
and the blood sugars were very well control on the 29 of August and on the
15 of September the blood sugars seemed to be out of control and her
NPH was increased according to the Diabetes Service.
Hematology: She is on aspirin and Plavix for poor targets and
coronary artery disease on 81 mg p.o. q.d. and Plavix of 75 p.o.
q.d. , and she was transferred with 2 units of PRBCs during this
course of the ICU stay. No active issues at the time of
transfer.
ID: She was started on levofloxacin , and she was also started on
vancomycin for a possible urine infection and that has to be
continued for at least 5 days of levofloxacin for a positive UA.
eScription document: 6-9205149 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: HOULTON , YEA
Attending: KERTESZ , ALETA
Dictation ID 0156050
D: 10/27/04
T: 10/27/04