856450649 | PUO | 99098383 | | 572070 | 6/3/1999 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/3/1999 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/3/1999
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: BILATERAL LOWER EXTREMITY WEAKNESS
OTHER PROBLEMS:
1. HISTORY OF MORBID OBESITY.
2. OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA.
3. ATRIAL FIBRILLATION.
4. HISTORY OF CELLULITIS.
5. EJECTION FRACTION OF 40 PERCENT WITH LEFT ATRIAL ENLARGEMENT.
6. URINARY TRACT INFECTION.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Mr. Cubeta is a very pleasant 59 year-old man who
presents with a history of morbid obesity ,
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and ejection fraction of 40 percent
who presents status post a fall and with increasing urinary
frequency.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Cubeta has morbid obesity and is
currently at a weight of 450 pounds
and also has a history of fluctuating weight with decrease in
weight to 200 pounds with dieting. He also has obstructive sleep
apnea on continuous positive airway pressure , history of atrial
fibrillation and is not anticoagulated per his primary care
physician. He has a mildly decreased ejection fraction with mitral
regurgitation and a history of cellulitis. He presented in 4/5
for a short stay unit admission with progressive lower extremity
weakness bilaterally and urinary incontinence. It was felt at that
time by neurosurgery and neurology to be multifactorial and no
consistent with disk or cord impingement. There was a work up at
that time including B12 , ANA and HIV all of which were negative.
EMG showed decreased recruitment in the tibialis anterior and
gastrocnemius bilaterally. His rectus femoris were normal
bilaterally. He was treated for a urinary tract infection at that
time with Bactrim for resolution of his incontinence and he was not
anticoagulated by his primary care physician. Since discharge he
noted continued right greater than left lower extremity weakness
otherwise at baseline health until two weeks prior to admission
when he noted some lumbar and sacral pain , nonradiating , worse
while moving his right leg. Over the past few days he noted also
increasing urinary frequency without burning or urinary
incontinence , no fever or chills and no costovertebral angle
tenderness or pain. No bowel incontinence or perianal numbness or
pain. The night of admission , at 7:30 p.m. while getting up from a
chair , his right leg gave out and he fell to the floor "gracefully"
without injury or head trauma , no loss of consciousness. He had no
preceeding dizziness , chest pain , shortness of breath or
paresthesia and presented to the Emergency Room at the Pagham University Of .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As above.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin gives him hives.
SOCIAL HISTORY: He is a psychology Professor , therapist , former
illicit drug use including LSD. No history of
tobacco use , currently. Rare alcohol use and lives with his wife
of 15 years.
FAMILY HISTORY: Varicose veins , early coronary artery disease in a
brother who was 50 years old. His parents passed
away in a motor vehicle accident. No history of clots.
PHYSICAL EXAM: The patient is a morbidly obese man in no acute
distress , sitting in a chair. Vital signs showed
temperature of 97.1 , pulse 80 , blood pressure 148/90 , oxygen
saturation 96% on room air with a respiratory rate of 20. HEENT:
Obese neck. Pupils equal , round and reactive to light and
accommodation. No conjunctivitis. Oropharynx is clear. Mucous
membranes were moist. Jugular venous distention not appreciated.
CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. HEART: II/VI systolic
ejection murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla. Irregular ,
irregular rhythm. No S3 or S4. ABDOMEN: Obese , soft and
nontender. ABDOMEN: Obese , soft and nontender. Nondistended with
positive bowel sounds and a significant rash of his pannus.
RECTAL: Strong rectal tone. EXTREMITIES: Right calf was with a
shallow , erythematous dry ulcer which was chronic with changes
consistent with venous insufficiency and varicose veins.
NEUROLOGICAL: Nonfocal. Strength in the right hip flexor was
decreased to 4/5 and on the right his plantar dorsiflexion strength
was 4/5 bilaterally. Sensation was grossly intact to touch.
Finger-to-nose was normal.
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Sodium 140 , potassium 4.5 , chloride
102 , bicarbonate 26 , BUN 20 ,
creatinine 0.9 , glucose 101. He had a white blood cell count of 9
with 76 polys , 4 bands , hematocrit 37.6 and a platelet count of
236. His urinalysis showed 3+ blood and positive leukocyte
esterase with 15-20 white blood cells , one plus bacteria and one
plus squamous cells.
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Neurological: The neurology service came by
to see the patient in the Emergency Room and felt
that there was no acute neurologic change but if the patient was
unable to walk he should be sent to rehabilitation. They saw no
new acute change and he should continue to be followed by neurology
in clinic.
2. Cardiac: He does have a history of paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation and echocardiogram with decreased ejection fraction
was noted previously. He will be started on a trial of Lasix p.o.
q day to decrease his peripheral edema to help him with
rehabilitation and his primary care physician will continue to
follow him for his atrial fibrillation and he does elect not to
anticoagulate him at the moment though Coumadin should be a
consideration given his risk of stroke.
3. Skin care: Right calf demonstrates a pressure ulcer and the
patient should apply Nystatin powder for his pannus rash.
4. Infectious disease: His urinary tract infection will be
treated with seven days of Bactrim and follow urine cultures.
DISPOSITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient will be discharged to
rehabilitation care for leg
strengthening.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q day , Colace 100
mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. q a.m. ,
Indomethacin 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. pain , Lisinopril 15 mg p.o. q
day , multivitamin one tablet p.o. q day , Bactrim DS one tablet p.o.
t.i.d. , Tamsulosin 0.4 mg p.o. q day , Miconazole 2% topical powder
b.i.d.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
Dictated By: MARIA COWART , M.D. CP56
Attending: BOBBY LOVERO , M.D. SX60  MK517/8095
Batch: 4548 Index No. B6RH7I56WG D: 8/28/99
T: 8/28/99