510033746 | PUO | 08075191 | | 2406971 | 10/25/2007 12:00:00 AM | intraabdominal abscess | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/25/2007 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 3/14/2007
ATTENDING: MARCOTT , DESIRAE MD
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN: September Petretti , MD
SERVICE: Nessinee Ker Hospital Medical Center Surgery.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Wound infection.
LIST OF PROBLEMS:
1. Wound infection.
2. Coronary artery disease.
3. Diabetes mellitus.
4. Hypertension.
5. Asthma.
6. Obstructive sleep apnea.
7. Morbid obesity.
8. Depression.
9. Peripheral vascular disease.
10. History of cerebrovascular accident.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 51-year-old female with
recurrent incisional hernia , status post repair x2 by Dr. Gravatt ,
who now presents with five days of abdominal pain , fever to 103 ,
vomiting two days ago , and dizziness. She denies constipation or
diarrhea , urinary symptoms and nausea. The pain is constant and
sharp over her previous incision. Last bowel movement was in the
morning of her admission.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease status post PCI in
2003 of the right coronary artery , insulin-dependant diabetes
mellitus , hypertension , history of cerebrovascular accident , in
detail , right thalamic infarct , left temporal watershed with
residual right-sided weakness , peripheral vascular disease status
post right saphenous artery stent , GERD , gastritis , erosive
esophagitis , asthma with an FEV of 2.2 and an FEV-FVC ratio of
82% , sleep apnea , morbid obesity , currently undergoing outpatient
evaluation for gastric bypass surgery , depression , and
fibromyalgia.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Cholecystectomy; repair of ventral
hernias x2 , last one in 2001 by Dr. Gravatt ; total abdominal
hysterectomy , oophorectomy , and tubal ligation.
MEDICATIONS AT HOME: Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , albuterol inhaler
2 puffs four times a day as needed , amitriptyline 25 mg p.o. at
bedtime , atenolol 50 mg p.o. daily , Lipitor 40 mg p.o. daily ,
Caltrate 600 plus D one tablet p.o. daily , Plavix 75 mg p.o.
daily , Diltiazem sustained release 120 mg p.o. daily , Nexium 40
mg p.o. daily , ferrous sulfate 325 mg three times a day , Prozac
80 mg p.o. daily , Advair Diskus 550 one puff twice a day ,
glyburide 5 mg p.o. daily , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. daily ,
insulin NPH Humulin 70 units subcutaneously every morning , 60
units subcutaneously every evening , Insulin Regular Humulin 5
units subcutaneously every morning , Insulin Regular Humulin 80
units subcutaneously a.c. , Imdur ER 60 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril
40 mg p.o. daily , and oxycodone 5 mg p.o. every six hours as
needed for pain.
ALLERGIES: The patient has no known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is a 34-pack-year smoker that quit one year
ago. Denies ETOH or IV drug use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , her abdomen was both soft
and obese. Tender above the midline incision with induration.
There was no overlying erythema.
LABS: Notable for high white blood cell
count of 20.5 as well as a troponin of 0.16.
Imaging: CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis showed a
6.1 x 6-cm loculated abscess adjacent to her current hernia , not
communicating with small bowel , also showed no obstruction.
The patient was admitted to the Nessinee Ker Hospital Medical Center Surgery Service. After
reviewing once more the imaging , it was determined that the
abscess was involving the mesh placed during the last ventral
hernia repair. The decision to proceed with an
Interventional Radiology guided percutaneous drainage of the
abscess was done. 98 mL of dark brown
and bloody discharge was extruded from this procedure and sent to microbiology ,
two drains were left in place. Eventually , 2+ Klebsiella pneumoniae grew
sensitive to several
antibiotics , for which her antibiotic therapy was redirected to
levofloxacin. On 10/2/07 , the patient was taken
to the operating room to remove the infected mesh. A Cardiology
consult had been obtained because of her troponin leak. The event was
determined to be ischemic in nature;
however , given her surgical indication , Cardiology did not
recommend an intervention at the Cath Lab at the moment; however ,
they do recommend that she is followed as an outpatient. The
patient was then taken to the operating room for an abdominal
wound exploration and removal of mesh.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. Neuro: The patient did well with p.r.n. morphine and
eventually p.r.n. oxycodone to control her pain. She has a
history of depression , so a Social Work consult was obtained ,
which provided emotional support for the patient.
2. Cardiovascular: She was initially given IV Lopressor
perioperatively and eventually she was restarted on her home
cardiovascular medications. Cardiology continued to follow and
her troponin trended down.
3. Pulmonary: There were no issues.
4. GI: Her diet was going to be advanced , however , on
postoperative day #2 , unfortunately bile was noted to be
seeping out of her abdominal wound , which was interpreted as the
development an enterocutaneous fistula. This was treated with
bowel rest and wet-to-dry dressings initially. Eventually , a VAC
sponge was placed , which after three days was removed and healthy
granulation tissue was appreciated underneath its original place. A new VAC
sponge will be placed once transferred to rehab.
5. GU: Maintenance IVF as needed
6. FEN: A PICC line was placed and TPN was initiated after the
enterocutaneous fistula was identified. TPN is now at goal.
7. Heme: Subcutaneous heparin.
8. Endocrine: Diabetes Service was consulted and a insulin
regimen was initially difficult to achieve due to high blood
glucose measurements initially and brief episodes of hypoglycemia
two days before her discharge. However , her insulin regimen now
appears to be optimal.
9. ID: Initially received vancomycin , levofloxacin , and Flagyl
since her admission; however , once the above results were noted ,
this antibiotic regimen was tailored down to a levofloxacin. She
is now being discharged on no antibiotics.
DISCHARGE MEDICATION: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4 h. as needed for
headache or fever to greater than 101 , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily ,
albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs every four hours as needed for
shortness of breath , amitriptyline 25 mg p.o. at bedtime as
needed for insomnia , Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , Diltiazem Extended
Release 120 mg p.o. daily , Nexium 20 mg p.o. daily , Prozac 80 mg
p.o. daily , Advair Diskus 550 one puff twice a day , heparin 5000
units subcutaneously every eight hours , insulin NPH Humulin 25
units every morning and 25 units every evening , Insulin Regular
Humulin sliding scale every four hours , Imdur ER 60 mg p.o.
daily , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. daily , Lopressor 50 mg p.o. twice a
day , naftifine topical daily , octreotide acetate 100 mcg
subcutaneously twice a day , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg p.o. every four
hours as needed for pain , and simvastatin 80 mg p.o. at bedtime.
DISPOSITION: Rehabilitation facility.
FOLLOWUP PLANS: The patient should contact Dr. Gravatt for a
followup appointment.
CODE STATUS: The patient is full code.
eScription document: 3-1065072 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: GUSTOVICH , MARLO HELENE
Attending: GRAVATT , JEFFRY
Dictation ID 6620153
D: 4/7/07
T: 4/7/07