162833261 | PUO | 88950853 | | 493749 | 2/18/1999 12:00:00 AM | VENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/25/1999 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/25/1999
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: ATRIAL FIBRILLATION
PROBLEM LIST:
1. Gout.
2. Hypertension.
3. Abdominal aortic aneurysm status post repair.
4. Prostate carcinoma.
5. Status post aortic valve replacement.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: This is an 81 year old gentleman with a history
of hypertension status post aortic valve
replacement , congestive heart failure , abdominal aortic aneurysm ,
atrial fibrillation who presents status post syncopal episode on
9/23/99 .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Houghton is an 81 year old gentleman
with a history of hypertension , aortic
insufficiency status post aortic valve replacement , congestive
heart failure and abdominal aortic aneurysm repair who was stable
with baseline dyspnea on exertion until the day prior to admission
when he went out to take the garbage. He states that he stepped
off the curb and passed out. He denies any prodrome syndrome and
denies loss of bowel or bladder function. No fever or chills. He
did not recall the event but remembers coming to and his neighbor
calling the ambulance. He denies any chest pain , shortness of
breath , palpitations , associated with the incident and denies any
similar event in the past. He landed on his left side , face first.
Mr. Houghton has been treated with propafenone for his atrial
fibrillation and two weeks prior to admission was increased from
150 mg t.i.d. to 300 mg t.i.d. Of note , he had been on
procainamide which was changed to propafenone secondary to an
increasingly positive ANA. During his last visit with his
cardiologist , Dr. Raabe , he was noted to be in atrial fibrillation.
His propafenone was doubled and was to be followed. At Norap Valley Hospital , the patient had a work up which included a head CT that
was negative. His INR was found to be 5.4 and electrocardiograms
revealed baseline left bundle branch block/widening of the QRS and
underlying atrial fibrillation. He was also found to have a left
lower lobe pneumonia and was treated with antibiotics. He was
transferred here for further evaluation. On 3/7/99 , he was noted
to have a wide complex tachycardia in the 150 beats per minute
range.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Prostate cancer treated with hormone
therapy 7-8 years ago. 2. Gout. 3.
Hypertension. 4. Abdominal aortic aneurysm status post repair.
5. Status post aortic valve replacement. 6. Status post
cholecystectomy.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Propafenone 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Coumadin
daily , Colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Allopurinol 200 mg q day , Pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Captopril 25 mg
t.i.d.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: No tobacco. One drink of alcohol per day. He
lives with his wife.
PHYSICAL EXAM: Temperature 98.0 , pulse 80 , blood pressure 138/82 ,
respiratory rate 20 , room air oxygen saturation 90
percent. Baseline weight is 193 pounds. GENERAL: This is an
elderly gentleman with multiple ecchymoses on the face with a
packed nose. He is mildly anxious. HEENT: Notable for facial
bruises , lacerations on the bridge of the nose with left naris
packing. Pupils equal , round and reactive to light and
accommodation. Tympanic membranes clear. Oropharynx is clear.
NECK: Reveals jugular venous pressure about 10 centimeters , 2+
carotids , no bruits. LUNGS: Bibasilar crackles , poor air
movement. CARDIAC: Irregularly irregular with a normal S1 and S2
with a I/VI systolic ejection murmur heard best at the right lower
sternal border and a II/VI systolic ejection murmur heard best at
the right upper sternal border. ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender. Good
bowel sounds. No hepatosplenomegaly. No costovertebral angle
tenderness and no spinal tenderness. EXTREMITIES: Cool ,
adequately perfused with 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses. NEUROLOGICAL:
He is alert and oriented times three. Motor strength is 5/5
throughout. Reflexes are 1+ and symmetric. GAIT: Within normal
limits.
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: White blood cell count 7.6 ,
hematocrit 40.5 , platelets 139 ,
sodium 139 , potassium 4.5 , chloride 104 , bicarbonate 22 , BUN 52 ,
creatinine 1.3 , glucose 98 , magnesium 2.0 , PT 22.2 , PTT 54.7 , INR
3.4.
Electrocardiogram revealed atrial flutter with rapid response or an
accelerated junctional rhythm at a rate of 85.
IMPRESSION: This is an 81 year old gentleman with no known history
of coronary artery disease who was status post aortic
valve replacement with homograft repair of the abdominal aortic
aneurysm on Propafenone for atrial fibrillation. Now presenting
with a syncopal episode of presumptive cardiac etiology. Given his
baseline supraventricular tachycardia , the most likely explanation
was a rapid ventricular response to atrial fibrillation/flutter
with a widened QRS secondary to propafenone.
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Cardiovascular: Initially his Propafenone
was held given its' ability to increase the QRS
interval. His Coumadin was also held given his supratherapeutic
INR and recent facial traumas. His hematological status was
followed carefully with serial hematocrit checks. He was evaluated
early on by the electrophysiology service and was started on a low
dose beta blocker to prevent him from going back into atrial
fibrillation while off the anticoagulation. An EP study was
planned , however on 7/17/99 the patient had an episode of
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia which appeared to be different
from his baseline atrial fibrillation. In addition this was not
likely to be a bundle branch re-entry pattern and therefore the
utility of an EP study was thought to be very low. Given this the
EP service favored placement of a DDDR/AIDC post cardiac
catheterization to rule out any coronary disease. Cardiac
catheterization was performed on 5/13/99 and he was found to have
no coronary artery disease. He went for his DDDR/AICD placement on
5/13/99 and this was done successfully. He was continued on his
Captopril and Lopressor and in addition , Amiodarone was started at
400 mg p.o. b.i.d. Two days after pacemaker placement he developed
a temperature to 101.1 and was cultured. The pacer site looked
clean and was not thought to be infected. He received AICD
teaching by the EP service prior to discharge. He will be
continued on his Ancef as an outpatient as well.
2. Hematology: His anticoagulation was held given that he was in
normal sinus rhythm and he had extensive facial fractures and
wounds. He remained out of atrial fibrillation and was not
anticoagulated. His hematocrit and platelets remained stable.
3. ENT: The patient had received nasal packing to his left naris
at Norap Valley Hospital and this remained in place for six days. He
was followed by the ENT service here at Pagham University Of
and their recommendation was for follow up maxillofacial CT scan.
This revealed multiple facial fractures but no orbital floor
fracture. The ophthalmology service was consulted and their
opinion was that he had a normal examination and no evidence of
ocular muscle entrapment , optic neuropathy or globe malposition.
Therefore no operative intervention was required for his
periorbital fractures. He is to follow up in the Pagham University Of eye clinic upon discharge.
He was also seen by the dental service and noted to have infected teeth. He had
a fever the day following his dental exam. This needs to be carefully managed
as he also has a prosthetic valve.
4. Neurological: The patient's mental status was
at time somewhat worrisome because he became very sleepy and lethargic , however
according to his outpatient cardiologist , Dr. Raabe , he is often
this way. Concern was raised for a subdural hematoma given his
recent trauma. However his mental status waxed and waned
periodically and he was also alert and oriented times three.
DISPOSITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient will be discharged to
Silvtonla Health .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Allopurinol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Amiodarone 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Captopril
12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Clindamycin 300 mg p.o. q.i.d. , Colchicine 0.6
mg p.o. q day , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lopressor 25 mg p.o.
t.i.d. , Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient is to follow up with Dr.
Teas as an outpatient and with the
Pagham University Of ophthalmology group. His amiodarone
dose will need to be decreased to 200 mg q day in about two weeks
as an outpatient.
Dictated By: WERNER SCHMIDTKE , M.D. VU17
Attending: MARGARETT TEAS , M.D. YQ81  DC613/1102
Batch: 9312 Index No. F3AEVC09ID D: 5/12/99
T: 5/12/99
CC: SUNSHINE D. RAABE , M.D. HR28