880628308 | PUO | 49275058 | | 6730688 | 10/30/2005 12:00:00 AM | ALTERED MENTAL STATUS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/25/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 2/10/2005
ATTENDING: AABY , WALDO OPHELIA MD
SERVICE: General Medical Service.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Altered mental status and dyspnea.
LIST OF PROBLEMS: Coronary artery disease status post stenting ,
congestive heart failure and head and neck squamous cell
carcinoma.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Cogswell is a 70-year-old man
with coronary artery disease status post stenting in September of this
year , congestive heart failure and head and neck squamous cell
carcinoma treated with chemotherapy and radiation therapy earlier
this year , presenting with a change in mental status and dyspnea.
After his stents in September of this year , he went to the cardiac
rehab and then home where he was mostly in bed on tube feeds.
His methadone dose ( for pain control ) was increased from 2.5
b.i.d. to 4. in the morning and 5 in the evening and he was
noticed to have increased lethargy. So , he self discontinued his
methadone for two days. He also had increased cough and tan
sputum. Of note , he just completed 14-day course of vancomycin ,
cefpodoxime and Flagyl for aspiration pneumonia. He also has a
G-tube for failed Speech and Swallow test previously. In the
emergency room , he received vancomycin , levofloxacin and Flagyl.
He had no other complaints on review of system.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease status post three
stents in January of 2005 for an NSTEMI , right hip placement. He
had a recent aspiration pneumonia , discharged from the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of on
4/30/05 . He has type 2 diabetes , left carotid endarterectomy ,
hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , congestive heart failure with
most recent ejection fraction of 20% and squamous cell carcinoma
originally treated in 1989 in the head and neck and relapsed in
2005. He is status post carbotaxol and radiation therapy.
ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: Include ECASA 325 daily , Plavix 75 daily , metformin
850 twice a day , Zocor 40 mg once a day , paroxetine 2.5 mg once a
day , atenolol 25 mg once a day , methadone 5 mg twice a day ,
Zofran p.r.n. , Lasix 20 once a day , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. once a
day , pyridoxine 5 mg once a day.
FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY: His father died of an MI. He lives
in Mon Vi Ce He smokes half a pack per day for unknown
number of years.
PHYSICAL EXAM: He was afebrile. His heart rate was 62 , blood
pressure 110/60 , breathing at 20 breaths per minute with an O2
saturation of 97%. He appeared tired with dry mucous membranes.
He had diffuse rhonchi on his chest exam. He had a 2/6 systolic
murmur heard best at the apex with a regular rate and rhythm.
His abdomen was soft and nontender with his G-tube site clean.
His extremities were warm. He was alert and oriented x3 on
initial exam but this waxed and waned during his inpatient stay.
PERTINENT LABS: Include glucose originally of 429 brought down
with insulin to 85 , cardiac enzymes which were negative , a white
count of 17.3 and hematocrit of 31.2 , but his baseline is in the
30s. Chest x-ray on admission showed a right lower lobe
ill-defined opacity concerned for atelectasis versus pneumonia.
A head CT showed no acute intracranial abnormality. EKG showed
normal sinus rhythm with a borderline QT interval of 490 , left
ventricular hypertrophy and deep T-wave inversions in the lateral
leads but the same as previous EKGs.
HOSPITAL COURSE: This is a 70-year-old man with multiple medical
problems including CAD , CHF and cancer with head and neck
presenting with change in mental status possibly due to his
methadone dosage versus infectious etiology namely pneumonia.
Hyperglycemia at admission may have been contributory.
Pulmonary: Blood cultures were negative for growth. He was
initially placed on cefotaxime and Flagyl and was changed to p.o.
meds , per G-tube meds Flagyl and cefpodoxime. He was continued
on his albuterol nebulizer , Atrovent and a repeat chest x-ray
after intravenous fluids revealed slight improvement. He , from
the respiratory standpoint , gradually improved with marked
increase in activity and alertness by the day of discharge.
Neuro and Psych: His change in mental status was thought to be
due in large part to his methadone changes in dose. He was taken
off the methadone and was eventually placed on Zyprexa 2.5 mg at
night and 2.5 mg at noon. He did wax and wane in terms of his
orientation sometimes thinking he was not at the hospital but he
always had the correct date , correct season and knew generally
what the current events at that time.
Cardiovascularly , he was diuresed gently but otherwise has no
change in status.
Palliative care: Palliative Care made numerous recommendations
that we followed , one was to treat with Zyprexa 2.5 mg at night
and at noon to stabilize his mental status fluctuations. This
came with uncertain effect as at discharge but overall his
functionality had improved and the amount of time he was aware
and communicative was overall lengthened. We also started him on
fluconazole IV and changed per G-tube upon discharge for
treatment of oral thrush.
Endocrine: He was placed on Regular Insulin sliding scale while
on his tube feeds. We also added insulin NPH standing order for
8 units at morning.
Code status: The possibility of DNR/DNI was discussed at length
with the patient and with his family and they repeatedly and
ultimately decided to have Mr. Cogswell be DNR/DNI at this point.
They understand the ramifications of this and are comfortable
with this decision.
DISPOSITION: Mr. Cogswell is being discharged to rehab at Sa Pehall and he will follow up with Dr. Lebario , his oncologist.
FOLLOWING PHYSICIAN: Alexandra Lebario , MD
eScription document: 7-2325767 CS
CC: Oview Covant Memorial Hospital
CC: Alexandra Lebario M.D.
Medical Oncology , Skill Snerkernfairmri Rehab
In Berkehai Gocoln
Dictated By: HARKLEY , JACQULYN
Attending: AABY , WALDO OPHELIA
Dictation ID 0346333
D: 5/7/05
T: 5/7/05