110132746 | PUO | 12605164 | | 9497000 | 9/25/2007 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE EXACERBATION | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 10/22/2007 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 7/21/2007
ATTENDING: SVENNINGSEN , CHRISTIAN VIVAN MD
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Status post fall.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 61-year-old gentleman with
severe pulmonary hypertension secondary to chronic PEs , OSA ,
gout , bilateral hip replacements who presents with two falls in
the past two days. The day prior to admission , the patient fell
while he was standing at the sink. He has poor recall of events
but thinks he landed on his leg. On the day of admission , he
fell after getting out of the shower. He grabbed a chair , but
slipped and landed on his buttocks , then he fell backwards and
hit the back of his head. He denies any loss of consciousness.
EMS was called and brought him to the Emergency Department. He
did note a brief episode of chest pain after the fall. He says he is compliant
with his medication regimen and denies dietary indiscretion.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Review of systems also notable for complaints
of more labored breathing , increased swelling , especially in the
left lower extremity as well as worsening orthopnea over the past
several days. He uses BiPAP at home at baseline.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for pulmonary hypertension ,
last catheterization was in September 2005 , which showed no
obstructive lesions , PASP of 104. He has OSA and is on BiPAP , he has
history of DVTs , history of lower extremity ulcers and cellulitis ,
hypertriglyceridemia , gout , hypertension , obesity. He is status
post bilateral hip replacement as well as knee
replacement.
ALLERGIES: He is allergic to Versed.
SOCIAL HISTORY: He lives in Lo A part of the year and owns a car
dealership. No tobacco.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: He was afebrile , heart rate
94 , blood pressure 126/60 , 92% on room air. Head atraumatic , no
nuchal rigidity. JVP was 10. Lungs were clear with distant
breath sounds. Cardiovascular exam: Tachycardic with a loud S2.
Extremities showed swelling over the right wrist without warmth.
Lower extremities had brawny skin changes bilaterally with
2+ edema in the legs to the mid shin. Neuro exam: cranial nerves
II-XII were grossly intact. He had 4/5 strength at the left hip flexor ,
5/5 otherwise in the lower extremities.
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Included a hematocrit of 58.7
within the patient's baseline of 53 to 58 , creatinine of 1 , INR
4.4 , troponin 0.04. EKG showed normal sinus rhythm with left
atrial enlargement and right atrial enlargement. Head CT was
negative. Plain films of the pelvis were negative for fracture.
Hardware was in place. Right wrist showed no fracture , but did
show erosive changes suggestive of crystal deposition.
Chest x-ray showed no pulmonary edema. Additional studies
included a repeat head CT , which was again negative.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: In summary , this is a 61-year-old
gentleman with a history of pulmonary history of hypertension and
chronic PEs on anticoagulation who presents after falls in the
setting of worsening lower extremity edema as well as orthopnea.
CARDIAC: ISCHEMIA: he was ruled out for MI. His last
catheterization was negative in September 2005. He was continued
on his beta-blocker and he was anticoagulated on Coumadin.
PUMP: The patient has severe pulmonary hypertension. The
NDH team followed this patient carefully. He was diuresed
with a daily goal of negative 500 to 1 L with IV Lasix once
or twice a day as needed. His home dose of Lasix is 160 mg p.o. He responded
very well to two doses of 160 mg IV twice per day , but this was titrated down
to 160 once a day given the goal of keeping the patient approximately 500 mL to
1 L negative per day to minimize fluid and electrolyte shifts. His weight on
admission was 440 pounds. At discharge ,
his weight was 429. His dry weight according to his primary
cardiologist's notes suggest a dry weight of 419 pounds. He was
otherwise maintained on his home regimen of Procardia ,
hydrochlorothiazide , Revatio , and Toprol. He will need to follow
up with Dr. Lamia , his cardiologist , on 3/10/07 .
2. Rhythm: The patient was in normal sinus rhythm. He did have
an episode of missed beats , likely Wenckebach on 7/20/07 as well
as some ectopy. These were thought secondary to fluid shifts.
His electrolytes were thus repleted aggressively and he was
monitored on telemetry.
3. Pulmonary: His baseline room air oxygen saturation was
90-93%. He should use oxygen as treatment for his pulmonary
hypertension. He should also be provided with oxygen at home
when he is discharged. Chest x-ray was clear. In addition , he
uses BiPAP at night and this should be continued while he is at
rehabilitation and after he is discharged.
4. Heme: The patient has a history of DVT with PEs. He is on
Coumadin with an INR goal of 2.5. Initially , he was
supertherapeutic on admission , but his regimen was restarted after holding 2
doses. Of note , on 7/21 , he did miss a dose of Coumadin inadvertently , but
he should be continued on his home regimen , which is 11 mg on
Monday , Wednesday and Friday and 12 mg the other days of the
week. In addition , because of the patient's asymmetric lower
extremity edema , LENIS were obtained and were negative. The
patient's elevated hematocrit was likely secondary to pulmonary
hypertension and hypoxia and was within his baseline.
5. Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: The patient was
maintained on K and mag scales. He was also on a 2 L fluid
restriction. The patient refused a cardiac diet; however , he was
willing to accept a diet that was had no added salt.
6. Neurologic: The patient's neuro exam was completely
nonfocal. He had a repeat head CT , which was also negative.
This was on 4/20/07 .
7. Musculoskeletal: The patient was seen by Physical Therapy.
He was treated for his hip pain initially with oxycodone. This
was changed to Dilaudid for better pain control. He said that he
would like to be changed back to his home dose of oxycodone when
he is discharged , as he feels the Dilaudid is fairly strong.
X-rays were negative for any fracture.
8. Rheumatological: The patient has a history of gout. This
appeared to be exacerbated with diuresis. His gouty pain was
initially in his right wrist. He also describes pain in his
right knee. He is on his home doses of allopurinol and
colchicine. Indocin was added and at discharge , the patient had
received two days of Indocin. We would like him to receive a
total of three days of Indocin. Tylenol and narcotics as
previously described can be used to help with his gouty pain.
9. GI: The patient takes Nexium at home and he was continued on
Prilosec while an inpatient. He should be switched back to
Nexium when he is discharged from rehabilitation.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT DISCHARGE: At discharge , the patient was
afebrile. His blood pressure was between 110-140 over 66-80 ,
heart rate is between 76 and 87. His room air saturation was 91%
on room air. He was breathing very comfortably and complained
only of right wrist pain. His lungs were clear. JVP is less
than 10. His cardiac exam was tachy with a regular rhythm and a
loud S2.
LABORATORY DATA ON DISCHARGE: Include a creatinine of 1 and
include a hematocrit of 53.1 and INR of 2.3. Potassium was 3.9
and magnesium was 2.0.
DISPOSITION: The patient is being discharged to rehab.
FOLLOWUP: He should follow up with his cardiologist , Dr.
Lamia . He also has an appointment scheduled with
Endocrinology in the near future.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Coumadin 11 mg Monday , Wednesday and
Friday and 12 mg nightly on Tuesdays , Thursdays , Saturday and
Sunday , Diovan 320 a day , multivitamin 1 tab daily , Toprol-XL 50
once a day , nifedipine extended release 30 once a day , Revatio 20
mg 3 times a day , hydrochlorothiazide 25 once a day , Lasix 160 IV
once per day , allopurinol 200 once per day , colchicine 0.6 once
per day , Colace , Prilosec 20 once a day , Dilaudid 2 mg q.4 h.
p.o. p.r.n. pain , Tylenol 500-1000 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. pain not
to exceed 4 gm total from all sources in a 24-hour period , Ambien
10 mg p.o. nightly p.r.n. insomnia.
eScription document: 9-4025147 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: HENDY , CLARETHA
Attending: SVENNINGSEN , CHRISTIAN VIVAN
Dictation ID 6369989
D: 3/19/07
T: 3/19/07