129779394 | PUO | 33011684 | | 436209 | 10/26/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/6/1995 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/13/1995
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: 1. Unstable angina.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Chauvette is a 59 year old gentleman
with a history of coronary artery
disease , status post PTCA in 1990 who present with recurrent
uncontrolled chest pain. He had a positive exercise tolerance test
in October of 1990 which led to a catheterization which showed 100
% proximal right coronary artery and 60 % OMB-2. He had successful
PTCA of his right coronary artery. His chest pain recurred in
February of 1990 and he had another positive stress test ,
catheterization showed restenosis at the PTCA site and a second
PTCA was performed successfully. He has done well with negative
stress test , most recently in 6/7 .
Over the last several weeks to months , he has noted increasing
chest pain with less and less exertion and now presents with on and
off chest pain over the last 18 hours prior to admission. He was
treated in the I Warho Hospital emergency room with beta
blockers and IV TNG which was limited by low blood pressure and
bradycardia. Because of ongoing chest pain with EKG changes , the
patient was taken directly to the cath lab and found to have a 70 %
left main , 80 % proximal LAD , 60 % OMB 2 , and minor irregularities
at the right coronary artery PTCA site.
Because of his continuing chest pain in the cath lab , an
intra-aortic balloon pump was placed and the patient was
transferred to the CCU. His past medical history is significant
for coronary artery disease , hypertension , depression. He has no
past surgical history.
MEDICATIONS: His medications on admission include Diltiazem ,
Naprosyn , aspirin , Prozac.
ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He is a white gentleman in moderate
distress. His heart rate is 54 , blood
pressure of 100/60 , jugular venous distention to 8 cm. with no
carotid bruits. Chest is clear to auscultation. The heart rate is
regular with a regular rhythm and no murmur. The abdomen is
benign. Neurologically , is grossly intact. His EKG on admission
shows sinus bradycardia with lateral ST and T wave abnormalities.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the hospital and
underwent emergent catheterization as above
requiring an intra-aortic balloon pump and was then taken for
urgent surgery. On 7/28/95 , he was taken to the operating room
where he underwent a coronary artery bypass grafting x 3 utilizing
the left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending
coronary artery , and saphenous vein grafts to the obtuse marginal ,
ramus , under general endotracheal anesthesia and cardiopulmonary
bypass. This was performed by Dr. Marcott and there were no
complications and the patient tolerated the procedure well. He was
taken to the post surgical intensive care unit in stable condition.
He remained hemodynamically stable over the first postoperative
night and was extubated without any problem. His intra-aortic
balloon pump was weaned down as tolerated and removed at the bed
side. He was started on Lopressor and aspirin and continued on
Ancef perioperatively. He was given Lasix for diuresis and
responded well. He progressed well and had his chest tubes removed
and was ambulating and tolerating a regular diet well. By
postoperative day five , a moderate amount of tan drainage was
noticed at the lower portion of his sternal wound. The sternum was
only slightly unstable and the wires all appeared intact on chest
x-ray. He was started no Vancomycin. By postoperative day seven ,
he continued to be afebrile and hemodynamically stable , saturating
at 95 % on room air. His sternal wound remained clean and he was
discharged home to be followed up by VNA with dressing changes and
monitored closely.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Include enteric coated aspirin once a
day , Prozac twice a day , Lopressor 25 mg.
bid , Tylox one to two capsules q three to four hours prn pain ,
Cipro 500 mg. bid for five days.
He will follow up with Dr. Marcott and with his local physician.
Dictated By: ERMA D. BESS , M.D. RR65
Attending: CARLTON J. ABSHEAR , M.D. DY0  HY755/1810
Batch: 6185 Index No. 9ZUQM97Y0B D: 2/22/95
T: 4/24/95