278353436 | PUO | 51253594 | | 9613392 | 10/24/2006 12:00:00 AM | URINARY TRACT INFECTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/11/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/2/2006
ATTENDING: DELMENDO , CRISTINE M.D.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Left MCA cerebral vascular accident.
LIST OF PROBLEMS/DIAGNOSES: Urosepsis , candiduria.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 83-year-old man
with a history of diabetes , peripheral vascular disease ,
bilateral above the knee amputations , dementia who presented on
1/1/06 to the Totin Hospital And Clinic Emergency Department with
mental status changes including increased confusion and decreased
responsiveness over the past two to three days. He had some
degree of baseline dementia but there was a definite change in
his mental changes according to his son. His son also reports
that the patient had decreased urine output over the past two
days with decreased p.o. intake as well. Although , the patient
did not complain of nausea , vomiting , fevers , diarrhea , chest
pain , or shortness of breath. He arrived in the emergency
department obtunded , responsive to pain only.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Peripheral vascular disease , status post
bilateral above the knee amputations , diabetes mellitus , insulin
dependent , dementia , hyperlipidemia , hypertension , anemia or
chronic disease , traumatic brain injury in October 2002 , which
included a subdural hematoma and a subarachnoid hemorrhage , also
congestive heart failure with the ejection fraction of 28%
measured in September of 2002 , history of C. diff colitis and
polymyalgia rheumatica and hypertension.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
HOME MEDICATIONS: Include Lantus , lisinopril , Ritalin.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Denied tobacco and alcohol per the patient's
son. The patient lives with his son.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Unable to be performed because the patient
was obtunded.
BRIEF ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAM: On admission , he had a
temperature of 96.5 , heart rate is 60 , blood pressure of 138/86 ,
respiratory rate of 14 , he is sating 97% on room air. He was
obtunded and responded to the pain by localizing with his left
hand. His skin was dry and cold to the touch. He had dry mucous
membranes. He had no jugular venous distention. His heart had
regular rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2 heart sounds. He
did have a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur. His lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally. His abdomen was soft and nondistended ,
positive bowel sounds. Rectal exam was deferred. Bilateral
above the knee amputations with no signs of infection from the
past surgical site. He had 2+ radial pulses. His neuro exam , he
was obtunded. His pupils were equal and reactive to light. He
had no thorough reflex. On initial examination , he had increased
tone in his upper left extremity and he was moving his left upper
extremity but not his right.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission , his Chem-7 was pertinent for a
glucose of 242 , a creatinine of 1.5 , and a BUN of 40. His white
count was 11.1 with a crit of 31.6 and platelets of 314 , 000. His
PT was 13.8 and INR of 1.1 and a PTT of 29.3. His EKG showed
sinus bradycardia with T-wave inversions in I , aVL , V3 through V6
with no ST changes. Compared to a prior EKG in July of 2004 ,
there were no acute changes. His initial set of cardiac enzymes
was negative. A Foley catheter was placed with frank pus
expressed into the Foley catheter bag. A UA was sent from that
specimen , which showed greater than 200 white blood cells , 3+
leuk esterase , negative nitrites , and 2+ bacteria.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
ID: The patient was admitted initially with the diagnosis of
mental status changes and urosepsis given the grossly positive
urine in the Foley and a positive UA. Urine culture was sent.
He was started on levofloxacin for a total course of five days.
He was fluid hydrated with normal saline bolus of 500 mL in a
rate of 100 mL per hour after that. He was also given a dose of
vancomycin and ceftriaxone in the emergency department , which
were discontinued on admission to the floor. The urine culture
eventually did not grow out any bacteria , but did grow out
greater than 100 , 000 candida. He was started on fluconazole IV
and that was discontinued after one day and he was switched
instead to an amphotericin bladder washout with 50 mg going into
a 1 L sterile water bag , which was infused into the bladder at 42
mL an hour continuously over the course of 24 hours. Further
into his hospital course , he again spiked the temperature on
5/23/06 to 101.6 degrees with transient hypertension with the
systolics into the 80s. At that point , he was started on
vancomycin , Flagyl , and gentamicin. Another urine culture , blood
culture and chest x-ray were done at that time. Blood cultures
eventually did not grow out anything as well as the urine , which
was also negative. His blood pressure improved with the fluid
bolus and over the next few days , he remained afebrile with a
stable blood pressure. On the night before discharge , the
patient's IV infiltrated and we were unable to replace the IV to
administer a one-time dose of gentamicin of 350 mg IV , which is
the extended interval dosing. At that time , we had conversation
with the patient's healthcare proxy who is Daryl Buol who
agreed that no further attempts at IV should be made and we
should continue to not have a Foley catheter in place. On
discharge , the patient will be sent home without antibiotics and
without a Foley catheter and the family is aware and agrees with
this plan.
Neuro: After the initial course of antibiotics in the emergency
department , we expected the patient's mental status to be vastly
improved. On exam the next morning , he continued to be obtunded
and did not seem to be moving his right arm. We therefore got a
head CT , which showed a large new left MCA territorial infarct.
We started aspirin and we consulted neurology. Neurology at
first recommended that we do an MRI , MRA and a lumbar puncture to
further investigate the mental status changes , but these studies
were deferred given the lack of interventions available to us
given the patient's decreased functional status. We did however
obtained a transthoracic echocardiogram , which showed an ejection
fraction of 30% and no thrombus , which could have been the nadirs
for the stroke. We also got carotid ultrasounds , which did show
75% stenosis in the right ICA and 1% to 25% stenosis on the left ,
which would not explain the stroke on the left side. We also
checked a lipid panel and started a low dose of simvastatin to
prevent further stroke evaluation and formation. Neurology had
signed off and he has a neurology follow-up appointment with Dr.
Paulk as an outpatient if needed.
Cardiovascular: He has a presumed history of coronary artery
disease given his low ejection fraction and regional wall motion
abnormalities seen on the echocardiogram. We started a low dose
of atenolol with hold parameters as well as lisinopril and as
mentioned before , we continued aspirin.
Endocrine: We continued the patient's Lantus dose and titrated
it as necessary. On discharge , he is going home with Lantus 6
units daily with the NovoLog scale for additional coverage.
FEN: At first , we kept the patient n.p.o. given his obtunded
state. We got a speech and swallow consult , which evaluated his
swallowing mechanisms and agreed that he could tolerate p.o. and
okayed him for nectar-thick pureed diet. He did not take a lot
of p.o. during his hospital course and was only able to be fed by
members of his family with any real efficacy. The topic of
placing a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tube was broached
with the family , but given that the patient is taking some p.o. ,
they wanted to defer PEG tube placement given his low functional
capacity and high rate of mortality over the next year.
END OF LIFE: The patient came in with a code that is of DNR/DNI.
Given the patient's new large left MCA stroke , which has left him
functionally debilitated , several end of life care discussions
were held with the patient's healthcare proxy Daryl Buol and
as well as with the patient's son who seemed to be his primary
care giver. They have all come to the agreement that the patient
would not wants to have aggressive interventions done , which
include CPR , intubation , pressors , and at this point as well they
feel that interventions such as IV fluids or Foley catheters are
not in order as well. The patient is being discharged home where
the family has arranged a certain level of home healthcare with
their primary physician. The patient already has a home
healthcare aid who works 40 hours a week during the day and his
son takes care of him the rest of the time. They are working on
arrangements to further supplement his care with the home
healthcare aid , which will be able to cover the nights and
provide him 24 hours to provision as which he needs. Several
discussions were held about whether the patient should be placed
in a skilled nursing facility because of his extraordinary
healthcare needs and that he needs to be fed , he needs to have
his diaper changed , and his hygiene looked after , but given that
the patient's wishes were to go home , the family felt
that they would try to take him home and feed him themselves and
see how he does and if that did not workout well , they would opt
for a more structured living facility for the patient. The
patient's family is aware of the large amount of working effort
that this patient will require in the future and they have agreed
to take on this task. We have offered our social services to
help with establishing further home healthcare needs , but the
family has actually done this independently with the primary care
physician.
COMPLICATIONS: There were no complications for this hospital
stay.
PHYSICAL EXAM AT DISCHARGE: On discharge , the patient was
afebrile with the temperature of 98.1 , his heart rate is 68 ,
blood pressure was 130/60 , respirations were 20 , and he is sating
94% to 99% on room air. On exam , he was awake and looking
around. He was nonverbal. He was moving his left upper
extremity but not his right using it to scratch his face and
forehead. His heart was regular rate and rhythm with normal S1
and S2 , no murmurs appreciated. His lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally. His abdomen was nondistended and soft
and nontender.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Include Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. ,
aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , atenolol 25 mg p.o. daily , Dulcolax 10
mg per rectum daily p.r.n. for constipation , Colace 100 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , milk of magnesia 30 mL p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for
constipation , Ritalin 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. , simvastatin 20 mg p.o.
q.h.s. , Lantus 6 units subcu daily.
DISPOSITION: The patient's disposition is to home. He has home
healthcare arranged through his family and through his primary
care physician. He has some blood cultures , which have been no
growth to date , but final cultures are pending and if they are
grossly abnormal , these results will be telephoned to him by the
microbiology lab.
PHYSICIAN FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENTS: He has an appointment with Dr.
Paulk of neurology on 9/6/06 at 8 a.m. An appointment was
attempted with his primary care physician who is Brooke D Lemmen whose phone number is 768-474-9098. Unfortunately ,
his office was closed and an appointment was not able to be
schedule before discharge. The appointment will be scheduled;
the date and time of the scheduled appointment will be telephoned
to the healthcare proxy or to the patient's son.
eScription document: 6-8031232 CSSten Tel
CC: Brooke Lemmen MD
Athens Mi Ponce Street
Villevos Highway , E Gilb West , Minnesota 30002
CC: Cristine Delmendo M.D.
E Acon
Dictated By: SCHUYLER , EVIA
Attending: DELMENDO , CRISTINE
Dictation ID 1164924
D: 8/21/06
T: 8/21/06