407116017 | PUO | 74918141 | | 291097 | 9/12/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/4/1993 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/8/1993
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 65 year old woman
with a history of coronary artery
disease , presenting with progressive symptoms for cardiac
catheterization. Her cardiac history began in 20 of April , when she
presented with new substernal chest pain. She ruled in for a
non-Q-wave myocardial infarction , was treated with medical therapy
and did well , until 5 of October , when she had progressive exertional chest
heaviness and shortness of breath. An exercise tolerance test was
positive at that time , and echocardiogram showed good left
ventricular function. She had a cardiac catheterization which
showed a 90% left anterior descending , 75% first diagonal , 75%
second diagonal. The cardiac catheterization was complicated by
foot cellulitis , sepsis and deep vein thrombosis and she was in and
out of the hospital for several months recovering. Given this , she
was hesitant to undergo further procedures and was treated with
medical therapy. The patient did fairly well with stable angina
and shortness of breath , until 1 year prior to admission when she
had slowly progressive increase in her chest heaviness and
shortness of breath , limiting her activities. Her anginal pattern
has not changed recently in a significant manner , but over the last
several months her pain has been extremely limiting to her
activities , and thus she presented for cardiac catheterization and
a question of revascularization. The patient has stable 2-pillow
orthopnea , she has claudication with a 10-minute walk relieved with
rest. The patient denied paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. Her chest
pain is not associated with diaphoresis , nausea , vomiting ,
radiation , or syncope. It is associated with upper chest
heaviness , shortness of breath and warmth in the chest and neck.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY was significant for coronary artery disease as
above , diabetes times 20 years on insulin for the last 10 years ,
complicated by neuropathy and retinopathy , hypertension ,
hypercholesterolemia , breast cancer status post left mastectomy and
radiation therapy in 1979 , peripheral vascular disease ,
musculoskeletal pain syndrome , she had a positive ANA previously on
work-up , but her symptoms are fluctuant and easily controlled.
History also included deep vein thrombosis during her previous
cardiac catheterization , cataracts , status post cholecystectomy and
appendectomy. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION were Nifedipine-XL 60
milligrams each day , Inderal 20 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day ,
insulin 45 units of NPH each morning , sublingual trinitroglycerin
as needed. FAMILY HISTORY was negative for coronary artery disease
and diabetes. ALLERGIES were no known drug allergies. SOCIAL
HISTORY revealed the patient lives with her daughter in Lan , she does not smoke nor drink.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , she was in no apparent
distress. Vital signs were within normal
limits. Head and neck examination was unremarkable. Lungs were
clear to auscultation. Cardiac examination revealed regular rate
and rhythm with a I/VI systolic ejection murmur , no S3 , no S4 , no
jugular venous distension. Abdominal examination was nontender ,
nondistended , no hepatosplenomegaly , normoactive bowel sounds , no
masses. Extremities showed no clubbing , cyanosis or edema.
Neurologic examination was within normal limits.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission , platelets were 318 , 000 ,
hematocrit 41.7 , white count within normal
limits , prothrombin time 11.2 , partial thromboplastin time 31.1 ,
electrolytes were unremarkable. Chest x-ray showed no infiltrates
or effusions. The electrocardiogram had normal sinus rhythm at 70
with axis 0 , intervals within normal limits , left atrial
enlargement , T-wave inversion in III , but no acute ST-T wave
changes.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted and underwent cardiac
catheterization which showed a 90% proximal left
anterior descending stenosis , 70% mid-left anterior descending , 90%
first diagonal , 70% second diagonal and 100% obtuse marginal branch
stenosis. The right coronary artery was not cannulated , but looked
normal with what dye could be injected. A percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty was planned the following day for
dilatation of her serial left anterior descending lesions , however ,
the patient had significant bleeding the night before , when arising
after her cardiac catheterization and the decision was made to wait
until over the weekend to do the percutaneous transluminal coronary
angioplasty. On Monday , the patient underwent percutaneous
transluminal coronary angioplasty with successful dilatation of the
serial left anterior descending lesions , both down to 30% , and did
well. Sheaths were removed the next day and the patient was
discharged.
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to home. CONDITION ON
DISCHARGE was stable. The patient is to FOLLOW-UP
with her Carna Home Hospital cardiologist. MEDICATIONS
ON DISCHARGE were the same as her admission medications.
Dictated By: DENISHA H. MCRORIE , M.D. Pro
Attending: KATHERYN SATURNINA GRUNTZ , M.D. Ahuntsonnews Ral Ra
WL315/8160
Batch: 0461 Index No. PWVGOOGFM January
January