326043009 | PUO | 82489284 | | 521826 | 4/25/1997 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/5/1997 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/7/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: DILATED CARDIOMYOPATHY.
PROBLEM LIST: 1 ) CARDIOMYOPATHY.
2 ) STATUS POST MULTIPLE INJURIES.
3 ) HISTORY OF HEPATITIS B.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 42 year-old gentleman
with dilated cardiomyopathy with
worsening functional status. He was admitted for transplant
work-up , right heart catheterization and optimization of his
medical treatment. He initially developed symptoms approximately
six years prior to admission with complaints of dyspnea and
orthopnea. His chest x-ray at that time demonstrated cardiomegaly
and ultimately an echocardiogram demonstrated dilated
cardiomyopathy. In 1992 , a catheterization was performed with
clean coronary arteries by report. In February of 1994 , he had a
"cerebrovascular accident". He was on Coumadin at that time. His
symptoms included right hand and face anesthesia and hemiplegia
which lasted only a few seconds and were self resolved. A CT was
negative by report. He was started on Coumadin subsequently. In
February of 1994 , he had an echocardiogram which demonstrated a
left ventricular end diastolic diameter of 6.2 cm and ejection
fraction of 20%. There was no thrombus seen. There was 2+ mitral
regurgitation. There were no regional wall motion abnormalities.
He was doing fairly well at home with medical management without
any admissions for congestive heart failure until earlier this
year. He began to have worsening symptoms following a viral
illness in October of 1997. At that time an echocardiogram in
October of 1997 demonstrated a probably left ventricular thrombus
and ejection fraction of 12%. His Lasix dose was increased and his
Atenolol dose was decreased. He improved and in October of 1997 , he
was able to participate in activities such as sledding and skating
with only occasional chest pressure and dyspnea on exertion. In
October of 1997 , an exercise tolerance test was performed which he
went 11 minutes. Maximum heart rate was 148. His rate pressure
product was 18 , 000 and the peak oxygen consumption was 20.4. At
the time nitrates were added to his regimen. His Atenolol was
increased. However , nitrates were discontinued because of headache
and insomnia. Now , over the prior one to two months , proceeding
admission , he has had worsening symptoms with orthopnea , dyspnea on
minimal exertion with less than one flight of stairs , decreased
appetite. His weight is stable , but it is felt to be a decrease in
the body amount with an increase in fluid weight. He has nocturnal
shortness of breath and dyspnea. There is no syncope. He was seen
by Dr. Fernande Prewer and was felt to be at that time a class four
on the Auhan St. . His Lasix was increased and he
was referred for admission.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Positive for orthopnea as well as paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea four out of seven nights.
There is no nocturia. His exercise tolerance is approximately one
flight of stairs with moderate shortness of breath. He complains
of nausea and anorexia without vomiting. He also has insomnia and
erectile difficulties. He has a 6 lb. weight loss over the week
prior to admission following an increase in outpatient diuretic
use. His baseline weight was 175 lbs. One month ago , it was 165
lbs. and the day of admission , it is 155 lbs.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Notable for cardiomyopathy as above , gunshot
wound to his chest and head at the age of 14
and motor vehicle accident , Hepatitis B. He has had four
colonoscopies in the past and has had no polyps.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Notable for appendectomy and a ganglion
cyst in his right wrist.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1 ) Enalapril 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 )
Atenolol 12.5 mg p.o. q. day. 3 )
Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. day. 4 ) Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5 )
Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q. day. 6 ) Kay Ciel 10 mg p.o. q. day. 7 )
Multivitamins one p.o. q. day.
ALLERGIES: The patient had no known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: He is a sales representative for a food broker.
He lives with his wife and three daughters in
Do Ga Falls He was a former smoker who quit in 1984. Previously , he
had smoked one to two packs per day for twelve years. He continues
to use alcohol and drinks approximately six beers per week.
FAMILY HISTORY: His father is 70 years old. His mother is 68. He
has a sister with colon polyps and a brother who
is healthy. His family history is otherwise notable for familial
colon cancer and polyposis.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs: Weight 72 kg , afebrile , heart
rate 78 , blood pressure 95/71 , respiratory
rate 18 , oxygen saturation 98% on room air. HEENT is
normocephalic , atraumatic. Oropharynx revealed multiple fillings ,
but there is no abnormality. His neck is supple with no
thyromegaly , carotid bruits or jugular venous distension. His
jugular venous pressure is 6 cm. His chest is clear. His cardiac
examination is regular rate and rhythm with an S3 as well as right
ventricular impulse palpable and audible. His abdomen was soft ,
non-tender with normal active bowel sounds. He had no bruits. His
liver is 12-14 cm and 1 cm below the right costal margin. There
are no masses. His extremities were warm and well perfused.
Neurological examination revealed a mild right facial asymmetry ,
but otherwise , his neurological examination is non-focal.
LABORATORY: Laboratory evaluation on admission was notable for a
sodium of 133 , creatinine 1.2. Liver function tests
are notable for a bilirubin of 1.7 and 0.7. His complete blood
count is unremarkable. His INR was 1.4. His urinalysis was
unremarkable. Pulmonary function tests on admission included an
FVC of 81% of predicted and FEV1 of 78% of predicted and an
FEV1/FVC ratio of 97% of predicted. His DLCO is 90% of predicted.
EKG demonstrated sinus rhythm at 80 with first degree
atrioventricular block. His PR interval is 0.226. His QRS
interval is 0.10 and his QTC is 0.401. There was a left anterior
hemi-block. His axis is -49 degrees. There was left atrial
enlargement. There was poor R-wave progression. There were
flipped T-waves across the precordium. There was an increase in
left atrial size since October of 1997 , otherwise no acute changes.
HOSPITAL COURSE: This is a 42 year-old gentleman with idiopathic
dilated cardiomyopathy now presented with
worsening functional status over the past few months as well as
recent fluid overload necessitating increase in Lasix. There was a
question of patient non-compliance especially given his current
alcohol use which raises the question of psychologic readiness for
cardiac transplant at this time. Following admission , the patient
underwent a right heart catheterization which demonstrated right
atrial pressure of 7 , right ventricular pressure of 55/12 , PA
pressures of 58/32 , mean wedge pressure of 30 , arterial pressure at
the time was 113/74 with a mean of 90. Additionally , by Fick , his
cardiac output was 2.85 with a cardiac index of 1.49 , pulmonary
venous resistance of 280 and a systemic venous resistance of 2 , 330.
Because of this markedly high SVR and a borderline PVR , he was
started on intravenous nitrates with intravenous Nitroprusside with
a significant decrease in his SVR as well as his PA pressures.
This was felt to be a significant enough reduction in his pressures
to suggest that he would be a successful transplant candidate.
Therefore , he was transitioned to oral nitrates and started on
Isordil by mouth. However , he developed intolerance to nitrates
with severe headaches and ultimately all nitrates were
discontinued. He was subsequently managed only on afterload
reduction. His Analopril was held and he was started on Captopril
which was titrated up with good maintenance of his decrease in
pressure. Additionally , he was started on Losartan for further
afterload reduction which he tolerated well without orthostatic
symptoms. His Lasix was gradually increased and he continued to
have quite a significant improvement symptomatically with no
further orthopnea in the hospital. Further parts of the cardiac
transplant work-up were undertaken including PPD and controls which
were placed. There was no reaction to either PPDs or controls at
72 hours. He had a B12 and folate level drawn which were within
normal limits. His thyroid function test demonstrated a TSH of 1.9
and all other parameters were within normal limits. Digoxin level
on discharge was maintained in a therapeutic range. Hepatitis
panel was sent and he was negative for Hepatitis B antigen or
antibody as well as Hepatitis C antibodies. 24 hour urine
collection was obtained for creatinine and his creatinine clearance
was at 88 at 24 hours. Pulmonary function tests were as noted
above. He was seen by Dental Consult and was felt to have a few
minor restorative needs which could be taken care of by his
outpatient dentist , but he was dentally cleared otherwise for a
transplant. Subsequent to his medical changes and his transplant
work-up , he was restarted on his Coumadin and was discharged when
his INR had become greater than 2 with a target range of 2 to 2.5
planned. Echocardiogram was performed on October , 1997 which
demonstrated 1+ tricuspid regurgitation , 2+ mitral regurgitation ,
severely dilated left ventricle with an ejection fraction of 20%.
There was diffuse severe hypokinesis and apical akinesis. There
was evidence of echo contrast within the left ventricle suggesting
a clot. There was moderate left atrial enlargement.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient was discharged in stable
condition. He was markedly improved from
a symptomatic point of view on discharge.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient is to follow-up with Dr. Fernande Prewer in
the Ashore Cleod Health
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1 ) Captopril 75 mg p.o. q.i.d. 2 )
Potassium Slow Release 10 mEq p.o. q.
day. 3 ) Lasix 80 mg p.o. q. day. 4 ) Multivitamins one p.o. q.
day. 5 ) Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. day. 6 ) Losartan 15 mg p.o. q.
day. 7 ) Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q. day on even days and 0.125 mg
p.o. q. day on odd days.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home.
Dictated By: GAYE GUSMAR , M.D.
Attending: HA I. OTANI , M.D. O
SN201/9589
Batch: 24363 Index No. VVLK8X5EPL D: 4/4/97
T: 10/10/97