461171537 | PUO | 89762298 | | 028299 | 11/15/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/6/1995 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 8/26/1995
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSIS
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: HEREDITARY ANGIOEDEMA
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 73 year old white female with
hereditary angioedema with recent
abdominal surgery presents with 30 hours of severe abdominal pain
and tightness , typical of her hereditary angioedema attacks. The
patient has had HAE since childhood and recalls having a ring cut
off her finger as a child during an attack. She has had three
tracheostomies , the last one over 20 years ago for laryngeal edema.
Symptoms include throat tightness , difficulty talking and
swallowing and abdominal pain. She often has attacks at local
trauma sites. Over the past several years she has received Human
C1 esterase inhibitor as part of a study conducted at CTMC by Dr.
Zonia Surette She has done very well with these treatments for acute
attacks until recently when she states the inhibitor has stopped
working as well as previously. Dr. Alycia Pitney has told her she
may have an antibody to the inhibitor and her recent events include
4/17 admitted with severe abdominal pain , flare of HAE , apparently
became hypotensive and acidemic and went to laparotomy emergently ,
on pressors without bowel preparation. Colostomy was done for bowel
wall edema and was complicated by postoperative abscess requiring
drainage. One month ago she had her colostomy taken down which has
been complicated by incontinence of stool requiring Depends. At
baseline , C4 is 6-10 , normal being 16-34 , C1 inhibitor 5-9 , normal
being 25-83. On 8/20/95 at 1:30 p.m. she developed the onset of
typical HAE attack with crescendo abdominal pain and throat
tightness. She took extra stanozolol but the abdominal pain
persisted to where it was intolerable and she presented to the EW
with nausea and vomiting. Last bowel movement was 8/20/95 ,
slightly loose , normal urine. In the EW she was given Demerol ,
Solu Medrol , Zantac and Benadryl. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Includes
cholecystectomy , appendectomy , hysterectomy for fibroid , but not
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. She has a history of renal
calculi , history of abnormal liver function tests , unknown cause ,
history of AF , now controlled with DIG and Verapamil. She is
status post subdural hematoma on Coumadin at therapeutic levels ,
hypothyroid on replacement , history of right deep venous
thrombosis , history of carpal tunnel syndrome , severe
osteoarthritis with cervical spine , lumbosacral spine and right
knee involvement. History of cerebrovascular accident , right
hemiparesis , now at 90% of baseline , left iridectomy , left drop
foot , left thigh numbness and tingling , dizziness and
disequilibrium. FAMILY/SOCIAL HISTORY: She has a son and two
grandchildren with HAE , three daughterse not effected , lives with
husband , daughter , lives upstairs. She uses no tobacco , rare ETOH.
MEDICATIONS: Digoxin .125 mg q day , Verapamil 60 mg b.i.d. ,
Coumadin 1 mg q day , aspirin 80 mg q day , Synthroid 0.05 mg q day ,
Stanozolol 2 mg q day with increased dose as needed. ALLERGIES:
Quinidine causes nausea; IV contrast causes rash; propafenone ,
migraines; penicillin rash; sulfa rash; novocaine throat swelling.
Food allergies are wheat , dairy , chocolate , walnuts and
strawberries.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission this is an ill-appearing woman
with a raspy voice. Vital signs , 99.1 , heart
rate 116 in atrial fibrillation , blood pressure 132/84 , respiratory
rate 18. Head and neck examination , normocephalic , atraumatic ,
status post iridectomy on left. The oropharynx is clear , no
stridor. Neck , supple , carotids 2+ , stigmata of old thyroid
tracheostomy. Lungs , clear to auscultation. Heart , irregularly
irregular , tachycardia , I/VI early systolic murmur at left lower
sternal border without radiation. Abdomen , recent midline incision ,
healing , normal bowel sounds , soft but exquisitely tender to
palpation or percussion. There is positive rebound tenderness ,
positive shake tenderness. Rectal , guaiac positive per EW.
Extremities , no clubbing , cyanosis or edema , pulses are 2+
peripherally. She has positive pain to passive motion right knee ,
neck not examined. Neuro , alert and oriented x 3 , cranial nerves
are intact. Motor is 5/5 throughout except left foot without
extension. Sensory , decreased light touch on the left lateral
thigh , deep tendon reflexes 2+ throughout , toes right upgoing , left
downgoing.
LABORATORY DATA: White count 10.2 , hematocrit 41.3 , platelets
377 , sodium 140 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 100 ,
bicarb 30 , BUN 14 , creatinine 1.5 , glucose 140 , liver function
tests normal. PT 13.5 , PTT 24.5. Chest x-ray and KUB without
infiltrates , no free air , no ileus , no obstruction. EKG , atrial
fibrillation at 117 , normal QRS and QT , unchanged from 10/10 , DIG
effect is present.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient improved dramatically over the first
day of admission with decreased abdominal pain ,
improving appetite and was started on clear liquids on 3/5/95 late
in the day. Initial treatment included Solu Medrol 125 mg IV bolus
in the emergency room and Stanozolol 2 mg q.i.d. when first sent to
the floor. She also had IV Zantac 50 mg q8 for the first three days
of admission. The patient's symptoms continued to improve and diet
was advanced over the next several days. Further concerns on this
hospitalization were whether or not she would ever be a candidate
for further C1 esterase inhibitor replacement , the question being
was her hypotension during the last treatment leading to bowel
surgery caused by the disease itself or as a response to the
inhibitor. As of discharge this question has yet to be settled with
Dr. Tunget The patient developed left pedal edema by 10/6/95 and
although on low dose Coumadin , note is made of past subdurals on
therapeutic Coumadin. The patient had a lower extremity noninvasive
revealing a left leg deep venous thrombosis located at the
bifurcation of the left common and superficial femorals. Given the
patient's complications on Coumadin in the past and risk of
pulmonary embolus , she was sent for filter placement which was done
on 2/14/95. The patient also had the complication of bright red
blood per rectum , she said this happens occasionally at home and on
examination had moderate external hemorrhoids , no sign of recent
bleeding , no internal hemorrhoids , no gross blood on examination.
At this point she had normal coagulation studies and her hematocrit
was 29.8 on 10/26/95. The patient was kept overnight with stable
hematocrit and discharged on 11/7/95.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home. MEDICATIONS:
Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q day; Digoxin .125 mg p.o. q day;
Synthroid 50 micrograms p.o. q day; Verapamil 60 mg p.o. t.i.d.;
Coumadin 1 mg p.o. q day; Stanozolol 2 mg p.o. b.i.d. The patient
will followup by telephone with Dr. Annette Schoultz CONDITION ON
DISCHARGE: Good.
Dictated By: SIOBHAN DICKHAUT , M.D. ME66
Attending: ANNETTE SCHOULTZ , M.D. JW7
FT919/1398
Batch: 4966 Index No. NCJDOBMS6 D: 8/8/95
T: 10/5/95