416683905 | PUO | 89518668 | | 2055104 | 3/10/2002 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/13/2002 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: LEFT FOURTH TOE GANGRENE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 49-year-old woman
with diabetes and well known to the
Vascular Surgery Service , status post multiple bilateral toe
amputations. She was last here in April of 2002. The patient was
admitted on March , 2002 for a planned left fourth toe
amputation and VAC sponge change by Dr. Kulinski
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history includes
hypertension , coronary artery disease ,
status post myocardial infarction , insulin dependent diabetes
mellitus , history of seizures , status post cerebrovascular
accident , gastroesophageal reflux disease , and asthma.
ALLERGIES: The patient's allergies include penicillin , aspirin ,
NSAIDs , and pentazocine.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: At the time of admission , the patient
was on Zestril 20 mg q.d. , Plavix 75 mg
q.d. , Peri-Colace 30 mg b.i.d. , Niferex 150 mg b.i.d. , Gabitril 12
TIT t.i.d. , Flagyl 500 t.i.d. , Lantus insulin 80 units q.h.s. ,
ceftazidime 1 gm q. 8 , vancomycin 1 gm b.i.d. , esomeprazole 20 mg
q.d. , Prozac 20 mg q.d. , folic acid 1 mg q.d. , Humalog sliding
scale , Lasix 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Dilaudid p.r.n. , Dulcolax p.r.n. ,
ofloxacin 0.3% ophthalmologic drops one OU q.i.d. , Cosopt one drop
OU b.i.d. , brimonidine tartrate 0.2% ophthalmologic drops one OU
q.i.d. , Pred Forte 0.12 b.i.d. drops both eyes.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Physical examination revealed temperature to
be 98.7 , heart rate 72 , and blood pressure
154/71. HEENT was negative. The chest was clear. The abdomen was
protuberant , soft , and non-tender. The extremities revealed open
amputations of the bilateral feet with 2+ femoral pulses and
palpable DP and PT pulses bilaterally with right greater than left.
There was no evidence of cellulitis with a necrotic left fourth
toe.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Vascular: The patient was admitted for the left fourth toe
amputation , which occurred on April . This wound
was left open. She tolerated the procedure well with a VAC change
occurring on August at the bedside. At that time , it was noted
that , although , there was pink granulation tissue , the fifth toe
had become ischemic and nonviable. Therefore , the patient was
taken to the operating room on August for a left fifth toe
amputation , which was also left open. That was tolerated well , but
did not seem to be viable secondary to ischemia and infection.
Therefore , on March , 2002 , she was taken to the operating room
for a left transmetatarsal amputation of the third , fourth and
fifth toes. Dressing changes , wet-to-dry , were done. During that
time , it was noted that additional necrotic debris at the lateral
aspect of the foot required more debridement , so she was taken to
surgery on April for debridement and a partial resection of
the left fifth metatarsal. A VAC was placed and changed on
March at the bedside. On October , 2002 , the wound was
felt to be clean enough and a split thickness skin graft was placed
on the left foot , 75 square cm , and the donor site was the left
thigh. This seemed to be taking well. We continued with dressing
changes and a heat lamp to the donor site , which healed well. On
February , 2002 , we took her to the operating room again for
debridement of the left foot. The plantar aspect of the skin graft
had become discolored and we felt the infection required
debridement. Intraoperatively , the bone did not seem to be
involved and , at this point , we had been continuing wet-to-dry
dressing changes and , as of January , 2002 , the plan was to take
the patient to the operating room on January , 2002 for another
skin graft. Now that the wound is clean , she has completed
antibiotics.
2. Neurological: The patient has a history of a seizure disorder ,
which has been stable on Gabitril. She is
status post stroke and is stable. For her depression , she receives
Prozac. Her pain is well controlled on a Fentanyl patch with
oxycodone for p.r.n. pain and Dilaudid for breakthrough pain. The
patient also has occasional dizziness and this is treated with
p.r.n. meclizine.
3. Cardiovascular: The patient has coronary artery disease and is
status post a myocardial infarction , and
hypertension , which is currently well controlled on Lopressor 50 mg
t.i.d.
4. Respiratory: The patient has asthma that has been stable and
not evidenced in the hospital.
5. GI: The patient has a history of gastroesophageal reflux
disease , which is treated with esomeprazole. She is on a
diabetic diet. She receives Colace , Senna , multivitamins , folic
acid and Niferex.
6. GU: The patient is receiving Lasix 100 mg b.i.d. at this
moment. Her admission creatinine was 0.7 , peaked at 2.0
on February , at which time we called a renal consultation , who
said she was probably pre-renal acute renal failure secondary to
ace inhibitor , Lasix and a new bunch of antibiotics. At that time
we held the ace inhibitor , held the Lasix , and renally dosed the
antibiotics , at which time her creatinine came down to 1.1 , which
is closer to her baseline. We have slowly restarted Lasix and she
has tolerated that. We have since discontinued her antibiotics.
7. Heme: The patient's admission hematocrit was 25.7 , for which
she received 1 unit of packed red blood cells on
April . She received another unit of packed red blood cells on
November and her most recent hematocrit , on January , was 26.8.
Therefore , she is baseline anemic.
8. Infectious Disease: This has been another major issue for this
patient. Starting from the beginning , on
October , the patient had a urinary tract infection with mixed
flora , for which she was treated with a five day course of Diflucan
for Candida. On April , a wound culture of the left foot
showed Pseudomonas , which was resistant to multiple drugs ,
multidrug resistant E. coli , and methicillin resistant
Staphylococcus aureus , as well as multidrug resistant Klebsiella.
On February , when we went to the operating room for further
debridement of the left foot , we obtained deep cultures from the
operating room and found Pseudomonas diphtheroid and Klebsiella ,
which were sensitive to vancomycin and cefotaxime. Infectious
Disease had consulted on our patient and recommended vancomycin ,
cefepime and Flagyl and a two week course of these antibiotics for
a soft tissue infection. It did not appear in the operating room
again that the bone was involved in the infection. An MRI on
August , however , showed soft tissue swelling in the sinus
tract that was suspicious for osteomyelitis of the fifth
metatarsal , but , in consultation with Infectious Disease , Vascular
Surgery , her operative findings , and clinical picture , we decided
it looked more like a soft tissue infection and treated her for two
weeks with antibiotics.
9. Endocrine: The patient has diabetes mellitus and her blood
sugar control has been an issue throughout her
hospital stay , slowly titrating up to her current Lantus dose of
150 units subq q.h.s. She seems to be doing well with that.
10. Ophthalmology: The patient is status post bilateral cataract
surgery and attempted filter for glaucoma in
the right eye and high pressure with pain , and proliferative
retinopathy with bilateral traction detachment. She was taking the
following medications: Pred Forte , Cosopt , ofloxacin , and Alphagan
for her eyes. On August , she had an Ophthalmology appointment
for floaters and that diagnosis was proliferative diabetic
retinopathy , status post pan retinal phototherapy with vitreous
hemorrhage. On October , she had an appointment with Dr. Raabe at
142-036-0000 , who recommended to add timolol to her eye drops , and
will be following up with her.
11. Dental: The patient had an appointment on July , where
they recommended a root canal of #18 and #19 for
caries. This root canal was done on January . The number of the
clinic is 428-247-1913.
12. Skin: The patient received Lotrimin , miconazole and wound
care to her right foot with Regranex. The left foot is
receiving wet-to-dries q.d.
13. Tubes , lines and drains: The patient had a right PICC line
placed on October , 2002.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:
Neurological: Continue.
Cardiac: Continue.
Respiratory: Continue.
GI: Continue.
GU: Continue with monitoring of creatinine.
Heme: Continue with monitoring of hospital course.
Infectious Disease: No antibiotics needed , but follow left wound
closely and she is positive for methicillin
resistant Staphylococcus aureus , so she will need to be in
isolation.
Endocrine: Blood sugar control.
Ophthalmology: She need follow-up with her ophthalmologist about
her retinopathy , bilateral detachment and glaucoma.
Dental: She had a root canal done and will need follow-up.
Vascular: Will need to follow her bilateral extremity examination
and the skin graft to her left foot to ensure proper
healing. As well , she will be needing rehabilitation secondary to
weakness and decreased mobility after these amputations. She is
heel weight bearing on the left , weight bearing as tolerated on the
right. Goals will be to have bed mobility , transfers , daily
therapy with exercise , and the goal will be to ambulate 25 feet
with the least restrictive device.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient
was actively on , as of January ,
Lotrimin topical b.i.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , Fentanyl 150 mcg
q. 72 hours , Prozac 20 mg q.d. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix
100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , heparin 5000 units subq b.i.d. , insulin sliding
scale , Lopressor 50 mg t.i.d. , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Pred Forte one drop OU q.i.d. , Senna two tablets p.o. q.h.s. ,
Gabitril 12 mg p.o. b.i.d. , miconazole powder to groin b.i.d. ,
Regranex topical b.i.d. to right foot and cover with loose sterile
dressing , Plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d. , Cosopt one drop OU b.i.d. ,
ofloxacin 0.3% ophthalmologic solution one drop OU q.i.d. ,
esomeprazole 20 p.o. q.d. , Lantus 150 units subq q.h.s. , and
Alphagan one drop OU q.i.d. She is currently using one touch ultra
glucose pen stick for blood sugar draws. She gets Tylenol p.r.n. ,
Natural Tears p.r.n. , Dilaudid p.r.n. for pain , Milk of Magnesia
p.r.n. , meclizine p.r.n. , and oxycodone p.r.n.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient was instructed to follow-up with Dr. Derham
in two weeks from the date of discharge.
Dictated By: DARLA TAAL , M.D. FE059
Attending: ROSSIE MANKOSKI , M.D. NW98
NP601/912754
Batch: 50279 Index No. FLMH989G68 D: 7/23/02
T: 7/23/02