925996229 | PUO | 14065099 | | 6353111 | 9/20/2003 12:00:00 AM | MITRAL REGURGITATION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/20/2003 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/20/2003
Date of Discharge: 10/20/2003
ATTENDING: LOIDA GOLEBIOWSKI MD
PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: Mitral valve regurgitation.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 26-year-old female
with a past medical history significant for Hodgkin's lymphoma
requiring chemotherapy and radiation therapy , as well as a
history of splenectomy , asthma , and history of tobacco use , who
presents to our service with symptoms of congestive heart failure
including dyspnea on exertion , lower extremity bilateral edema ,
and decrease exercise tolerance. On the day of admission ,
2/22/03 , she underwent cardiac catheterization , which revealed
clean coronary arteries. On August , 2003 , she then
underwent an elective mitral valvuloplasty , 26 Carpentier-Edwards
pericardial , with size 26 Cosgrove-Edwards ring and vegectomy.
In the immediate postoperative period , she was transferred to the
Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit initially requiring 0.5 of
epinephrine to maintain proper pressure. Epinephrine was weaned
to off on postoperative day #1. She was extubated in the evening
of the day of surgery and epinephrine was subsequently weaned to
off. Gentle diuresis was begun on postoperative day #1 as well
as low dose beta blocker , which she tolerated well. She was
transferred to the Cardiac Surgery Step Down Unit on
postoperative day #1 , where diuresis was increased. Baby aspirin
was begun , and the patient continued to make excellent
cardiovascular progress. On February , 2003 , she began to
complain of some persistent numbness and tingling of the left
lower extremity , which she felt to be interrupting her attempts
to stand and maintain balance. For further treatment , a
Neurology consult was obtained. Per Neurology , she was found to
have no weakness at the left lower leg and foot , although when
pressure was exerted on the foot , she reported an uncomfortable
tingling throughout the leg. She reported no back pain and no
change in bowel or bladder control. Sensory examination was
found to be intact , however , soft touch and pin sensation tested
in the lateral leg below the knee caused a spreading tingling
sensation throughout the left lower extremity. Per Neurology
recommendations , Neurontin 300 mg q.d. was begun and it was
recommended that she follow up with the Department of Neurology
following discharge if the tingling sensation has not improved.
With aggressive diuresis , the patient was able to regain her
postoperative weight and by the day of discharge was 1.7
kilograms below her preoperative weight. She has made excellent
cardiovascular progress following this surgery and is anticipated
to continue her rehabilitation at home with VNA System.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is an obese young woman alert
and oriented x 3. HEENT: No carotid bruits or JVD present.
Pulmonary: Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Coronary: Regular rate and rhythm. Normal S1 , S2. No murmurs ,
rubs , or gallops appreciated. Abdomen: Obese , nontender , and
nondistended. Positive bowel sounds. Extremities: 2+ pulses at
all extremities bilaterally. Trace edema at the bilateral lower
extremities to mid calf. Skin: Midline sternotomy incision well
approximated , healing well. No areas of erythema or drainage
noted.
LABORATORY DATA: On the day of discharge , sodium 141 , potassium
4.2 , BUN 17 , creatinine 1.0 , calcium 8.9 , magnesium 2.6 , white
blood cell count 11.3 , hematocrit 33.5 , platelets 361 , and INR
1.0.
PROCEDURES: On 6/2/2003 , elective mitral valvuloplasty , 26
Cosgrove-Edwards ring with vegectomy , small sterile vegetations
on A2 and P2 debrided , and found by lab testing to be sterile
vegetations. Cross clamp times were confirmed by Gram stain as
sterile and debrided intraoperatively. Please refer to operative
note for details.
CONSULT: Consulted Department of Neurology with followup
recommendations implemented during this patient's stay.
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged today to her home
with VNA assistance.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. x 7 days , Lasix 60 mg p.o. q.d. ,
ibuprofen 800 mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n. pain , Lopressor 25 mg p.o.
t.i.d. , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Atrovent nebulizer 0.5 mg
nebulized q.i.d. , Neurontin 300 mg p.o. q.d. , K-Dur 30 mEq p.o.
q.d. to be discontinued or decreased if Lasix dose is changed ,
and Flovent 44 mcg/inh b.i.d.
The patient has been instructed to call to schedule follow up
appointments with Pagham University Of Department of
Cardiac Surgery , Dr. Loida Golebiowski , within 6-8 weeks following
discharge as well as her primary care physician , Dr. Trish Chaix in approximately 1-2 weeks as well as with her
Cardiologist , Dr. Christeen Jacobson in 1-2 weeks. She will
call on recommendation from her primary care physician to
schedule follow up appointment with Pagham University Of
Department of Neurology should her left lower extremity tingling
not resolve. At that time , she would be advised to pursue EMG
testing for further workup of dysasthesia. The patient has made
excellent progress following her mitral valvuloplasty surgery and
is anticipated that she will return to her full preoperative
level of independent functioning with continued cardiovascular
rehabilitation and VNA assistance.
Please call if further questions or concerns.
Thank you for referring this patient to our service.
eScription document: 1-5890310 ISSten Tel
CC: Christeen Jacobson M.D.
SVG QV4 , Pagham University Of
Ron Terdilake Lis Di
Go Ville Green
CC: Loida Golebiowski MD
DIVISION OF CARDIAC SURGERY
E Mifran Van
Ra Que Fre
CC: Trish Chaix M.D.
DELJ COUNTY MEDICAL CENTER
S Son Si
Louis , Hawaii 54738
Dictated By: SURGEON , PRICILLA
Attending: GOLEBIOWSKI , LOIDA
Dictation ID 6977837
D: 10/2/03
T: 8/21/03