946845360 | PUO | 39737797 | | 675375 | 2/28/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/2/1992 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/7/1992
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: TRANSIENT ISCHEMIC ATTACK. PROBLEM LIST
INCLUDES HISTORY OF LEFT HEMISPHERIC
CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT RESULTING IN
SHORTTERM MEMORY LOSS AND RIGHT SIDED
WEAKNESS , LEFT GREATER THAN RIGHT , WHICH
OCCURRED IN 1981 , PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE
STATUS POST RIGHT FEMOROPOPLITEAL BYPASS
ANGIOPLASTY TIMES THREE IN 1989 , HISTORY OF
CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE , AND
HISTORY OF ATYPICAL CHEST PAIN.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 58 year old white male with
a history of peripheral vascular
disease and old left hemispheric cerebrovascular accident who
presents with a right sided arm weakness and numbness. In 1981 ,
the patient suffered a left hemispheric cerebrovascular accident
which resulted in shortterm memory loss and right sided weakness ,
leg greater than arm. The right sided deficit eventually resolved ,
however , his lower leg remained numbness and weak , distal greater
than proximal. Ten days prior to admission , the patient
experienced a transient episode of loss of vision in his right eye.
He states that he felt as if his lid was closed over his right eye
and he asked his wife whether this was actually the case.
Approximately ten to fifteen seconds later , the "blindness"
disappeared and his normal vision returned. Two days prior to
admission , patient began to experience chest pain and subsequently
took sublingual Nitroglycerin. He states that his pain briefly
improved but would then recur much more severely. This complex
event occurred three times before the pain began to subside.
Immediately following the second episode , the patient states that
he began to feel increasing weakness in his right hand. The
sensation increased over the course of the entire day and became
so bothersome at night that he had trouble sleeping. He then
became concerned that he might have had a stroke ( the weakness
reminded him of his previous cerebrovascular accident ) and he
decided to come to the Pagham University Of for evaluation.
In the Emergency Room , he had a head CT done which was negative and
also an EKG which showed normal sinus rhythm. He denies
dysarthria , loss of consciousness , and/or dizziness. PAST MEDICAL
HISTORY: In 1981 , as stated , peripheral vascular disease , status
post right femoropopliteal bypass angioplasty times three in 1989 ,
status post L5-L6 discectomy in 1984 , persistent lumbar disc , EMG
consistent with mild to moderate denervation of lower extremity
muscles , left greater than right , consistent with polyradiculopathy
or spinal stenosis , history of esophageal reflux and esophageal
spasm , history of atypical chest pain , angina , reportedly had
negative coronary catheterization , status post bilateral knee
surgery for a history of osteoarthritis , status post
cholecystectomy , status post small bowel obstruction times two with
enterolysis , and history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Calan SR 120 mg q.d. , Tagamet , sublingual
Nitroglycerin p.r.n. , and Azmacort. ALLERGIES: Penicillin.
FAMILY HISTORY: Negative for diabetes and hypertension but
positive for increased cholesterol and heart disease. He has a
sixty pack year history of smoking , no history of alcohol or
intravenous drug abuse. SOCIAL HISTORY: He is a married retired
auto mechanic.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He was a pleasant male , he was lying in bed ,
and appeared older than his stated age.
Vital signs showed temperature 98.7 , pulse 82 , blood pressure
144/90 , and respirations 18. LUNGS: Clear bilaterally with
distant breath sounds bilaterally. HEART: Regular rate and rhythm
with no murmurs. No carotid , ophthalmic , vertebral , or temporal
bruits auscultated. ABDOMEN: Soft and non-tender with scar in
right upper quadrant consistent with old cholecystectomy.
NEUROLOGICAL: Examination showed mental status with patient alert
and oriented times three , attention showed digit repetition of five
forward , forward , backward , language with spontaneous speech ,
normal fluency , and normal comprehension , and patient pointed to
objects in sequence good. Yes and no questions normal , word and
sentence repetition normal , naming and word finding normal , reading
normal , writing normal , and memory showed immediate recall good and
remote memory three out of three events , new learning ability , and
four out of four objects at five minutes. Numered construction
ability and clock were normal , cube unable to reproduce , and
cranial nerves showed II with bilateral horizontal nystagmus of
about ten beats noted bilaterally. VII nerve showed right sided
nasolabial fold droop and mild ptosis. Patient had a history of
Bell's palsy. All other cranial nerves were normal , motor
examination was showed tone normall throughout , bulk was normal
throughout , and his upper extremities showed right upper extremity
with deltoid of 5 , triceps 5 , biceps 5 , wrist extensors 4+ , wrist
flexors 4+ , finger extension 4+ , and finger flexion 4+. Upper
extremity on the left side showed deltoids 5 , triceps 5 , biceps 5 ,
wrist extensors 5 , wrist flexors 5 , finger extension 5 , and finger
flexion 5. Lower extremities showed , on the right iliopsoas of 5 ,
hamstring 5 , quadriceps 4+ , gracilis 4+ , AT 4+ , and EHL 4+ with , on
the left iliopsoas 4 minus , hamstring 4 minus , quadriceps 4 minus ,
gracilis 4 minus , AT 4 minus , and EHL 4 minus. Sensory
examination of the upper extremity right normal light touch , pain ,
and temperature except for some decreased joint position about the
right finger and left upper extremity showed normal joint position ,
light touch , pain , and temperature. Lower extremity joint position
was decreased about the ankle on the right and also decreased on
the left , light touch was decreased , and pain and temperature were
decreased all in the same distribution on the right and the area
where a graft had been taken. There was normal on the left side
for light touch , pain , and temperature. Reflexes in the upper
extremity were 2 throughout , reflexes in the lower extremity was 1
throughout , Babinski not present bilaterally , normal
finger-to-nose , and gait was not tested.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission , he had a white count of 9 ,
hemoglobin 14.6 , hematocrit 40.9 , MCV
88.4 , platelets 221 , his PT was 12 , and PTT was 35. His urine was
clear and clean and SMA 7 was normal.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was ruled out for myocardial
infarction with cardiac enzymes. During his
hospitalization course , patient was heparinized and PTT was kept
therapeutic. Patient had an MRA angiography on 10/6/92 of the
head which showed a left area of enhancement in the left pons. He
had an echo which was normal except for an echodense lesion about a
cm above the aorta , possibly an atherosclerotic plaque , and he had
carotid dopplers which were normal. The discharge impression was lacunar
disease , but embolism ( of unclear origin ) could not be ruled out.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Calan SR 120 mg q.d. , Tagamet
at 400 mg t.i.d. , and Aspirin 325 mg q.d. The
patient is sent home with follow-up with Dr. Shetz in two weeks.
AU355/4353
WALDO O. AABY , M.D. GB4 D: 3/26/92
Batch: 1339 Report: L0137M3 T: 7/11/92
Dictated By: GAYLENE FANIEL , M.D.