545309959 | PUO | 87447111 | | 564292 | 11/26/1997 12:00:00 AM | CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/20/1997 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 2/3/1997
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: ASTHMA/CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE
FLARE.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: ASTHMA/CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE
FLARE.
CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE , STATUS POST CORONARY
ARTERY BYPASS GRAFT IN 1994.
INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS.
PAROXYSMAL ATRIAL FIBRILLATION.
DEGENERATIVE JOINT DISEASE.
STATUS POST BILATERAL TOTAL KNEE REPLACEMENT.
STATUS POST PARATHYROIDECTOMY.
CHRONIC RENAL INSUFFICIENCY.
BILATERAL CATARACTS.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Shortness of breath.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 75 year old female ,
with a history of coronary artery
disease , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , and diabetes , who
presented with chest tightness and a nonproductive cough. The
patient basically complained of a two to three day history of
cough , congestion , and wheezing. She had a productive cough
productive of white clear sputum. The patient also stated that her
respirations were accompanied by chest tightness , different from
her angina equivalent. The patient denied fevers , chills , night
sweats , or dizziness. She had no diarrhea , nausea , or vomiting.
The patient initially presented to Akcare Hospital where chest
x-ray was clear , without evidence of infiltrate. The patient was
transferred to I Warho Hospital Emergency Department for
further evaluation. In the Emergency Department at PUO , it was
felt that the patient deserved admission to the Short Stay Unit for
very mild congestive heart failure exacerbation and bronchospastic
episode. The patient was given one dose of Solu-Medrol 80 mg
intravenously and transferred up on Albuterol and Atrovent
nebulizers. Of note , the patient had a history of increased
glucose intolerance on steroids. She also had pulmonary function
tests on 10 of February which demonstrated an FEV1 of 1.27 which was 69%
of predicted and an FVC of 1.75 which was 75% of predicted.
Echocardiogram in September 1994 demonstrated mild to moderate decreased
left ventricular function with regional wall motion abnormality
consistent with her old apical septal and inferobasilar infarcts.
Ejection fraction at that time was 45%. The patient had previously
been treated with Biaxin and then switched to Augmentin in the
Short Stay Unit for treatment of possible bronchitis. Other issues
in the Short Stay Unit were a question of an infection of the left
great toe with a history of diabetes. The patient was transferred
to Grand on 6 of February in stable condition.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) History of congestive heart failure.
2 ) Coronary artery disease , status post
coronary artery bypass graft in 1994 , LIMA to LAD and an SVG graft
to OM1 , distal OM1 and RCA. 3 ) Insulin dependent diabetes.
4 ) Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. 5 ) Degenerative joint disease.
6 ) Asthma/chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 7 ) Status post
bilateral total knee replacements. 8 ) Status post
parathyroidectomy for hyperparathyroidism. 9 ) Chronic renal
insufficiency. 10 ) Status post brown tumor excision of the right
radius. 11 ) Constipation. 12 ) Rectocele repair in February 1997.
13 ) Cataracts.
ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to Bactrim which causes rash.
MEDICATIONS: Medications on transfer from the Short Stay Unit
included Atrovent nebulizers .5 q.4h. , Mevacor 20 mg
q.d. , Premarin .625 mg q.d. , Cardizem CD 300 mg per day , Vasotec
7.5 mg q.d. , enteric coated aspirin 81 mg q.d. , calcium carbonate
625 mg q.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , vitamin C 500 mg per day ,
Prednisone 40 mg per day , sliding scale insulin NPH 12 units in the
morning and 5 units at night , Lasix 20 mg per day , Albuterol
nebulizer 2.5 mg q.3h. , Augmentin 250/125 mg t.i.d. , and Lotrimin
1%.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her husband and grown
children in Riry Street , Green Xing Tempe The patient denied tobacco
or ethanol history.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , this was an elderly female
sitting in a chair in no apparent distress.
Vital signs included temperature of 97.1 , heart rate 84 , blood
pressure 128/78 , and breathing of 99% on 3 liters. HEENT: Pupils
were equal , round , and reactive to light. Extraocular movements
were intact. Moist mucous membranes were noted. Oropharynx was
clear , without lesions. Neck had 2+ carotid pulses bilaterally
without bruits. Jugular venous pressure was estimated at
approximately 5 cm. Lungs had a few end expiratory wheezes
bilaterally at the bases. Heart revealed a regular rate and rhythm
with normal S1 and S2 and no rubs , gallops , or murmurs. Abdominal
exam was soft , with positive bowel sounds , nontender , nondistended ,
with no hepatosplenomegaly. Extremities demonstrated 1+ peripheral
pulses bilaterally. Status post bilateral total knee replacement
scars were notable. There were 1+ femoral pulses. She had a left
great toe with tenderness and erythema. No lymphangitic changes
were appreciated.
LABS ON TRANSFER: Sodium was 137 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 105 ,
bicarbonate 23 , BUN 49 , creatinine 1.6 , glucose
129. Iron was 76 , ferritin 236. White count was 16.5 , hematocrit
33.3 , and platelets 255 , with an MCV of 89.7. Chest x-ray
demonstrated elevated left hemidiaphragm with minimal atelectasis
at the left base. Lungs were clear. She was status post coronary
artery bypass grafting. Pulmonary vasculature was normal. She had
notable degenerative joint disease of the thoracic spine. There
was no evidence of acute disease. ECG demonstrated normal sinus
rhythm at 70 beats per minute with left atrial enlargement , poor R
wave progression , old Q's in 3 , and no acute ST-T wave changes.
ASSESSMENT: The assessment for this woman was an acute chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease/bronchospastic airway
disease exacerbation , as well as left great toe infection.
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1 ) Pulmonary: The patient was initially admitted
on 21 of September to the Short Stay Unit as stated in
the history of present illness and received one dose of Solu-Medrol
intravenously in the Emergency Department and then started on
Prednisone 40 mg p.o. q.d. She was also placed on Atrovent and
Albuterol nebulizers. The patient noted slow improvement in
symptoms , as well as peak flows. Peak flow initially on admission
was around 200 and on transfer from the Short Stay Unit was about
250. Once the patient was transferred to the floor , she had noted
significant improvement , requiring decreased 02 , essentially to
require no 02 on 11 of April with an 02 saturation of 96%. The
patient was changed to metered dose inhalers with Aerochamber on
11 of April which consisted of Serevent two puffs b.i.d. , Vanceril
four puffs b.i.d. , and Albuterol two puffs q.i.d. , with noted
improvement. The patient was also continued on 40 mg of Prednisone
p.o. q.d. , as well as Augmentin for question of bronchitis. On
26 of July the patient was found to have slight scattered end
expiratory wheezes , however , was moving good air. It was decided
to discharge the patient from a pulmonary standpoint on Vanceril
four puffs b.i.d. , Serevent two puffs b.i.d. , and Albuterol two
puffs q.i.d. for seven days , then p.r.n. The patient's peak flow
on the day of discharge was approximately 250 as well , however ,
notable symptomatic improvement was achieved. The patient is to
follow-up with Dr. Burle in one week.
2 ) Left great toe cellulitis. An infectious disease consult was
obtained , and it was felt that bone films would be in order to rule
out any evidence of chronic osteomyelitis as well as to continue
on Augmentin 250 mg t.i.d. Bone films were obtained which were
negative for any evidence of chronic osteomyelitis. Subsequently ,
ESR was checked which was elevated at 73. As well , a bone scan
obtained to rule out chronic osteomyelitis of the left great toe ,
the results of which on the preliminary reading were as follows.
The right foot was diffusely hyperemic. The left foot potentially
could be underperfused in relation to the right foot secondary to
diabetic vascular changes. On the delayed images , the right second
proximal phalanx had a slight prominence. The left second
metatarsophalangeal joint had a slight prominence. She also
demonstrated an abnormal right mid foot at the proximal
metatarsophalangeal joints of the medial three metatarsals ,
possibly consistent with neuropathic joint. There was also a
prominence of bilateral tibial components of the knees which could
be suggestive of prosthetic loosening , however , this was not
confirmed by clinical exam. In essence , there was no evidence of
chronic osteomyelitic changes. Therefore , it was decided to
continue a total of a 14 day course of Augmentin 250 mg t.i.d.
for this issue. If symptoms were to worsen or not improve fully ,
the patient is to follow-up again with her primary medical doctors ,
Dr. Heam or Dr. Burle , as well as potentially setting her up in
the Infectious Disease Clinic for further follow-up.
3 ) Miscellaneous. As to the remainder of her medical issues , the
patient was maintained on her home medications and demonstrated no
issues. Therefore , the patient was discharged on 26 of July in
stable condition.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient is to make an appointment and follow-up
with Dr. Burle for her chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease/asthma flare. She is also to follow-up with Dr. Heam in
three weeks to one month for her endocrinologic issues. VNA will
check glucose measurements twice a week , the results of which are
to be called in to her endocrinologist.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Augmentin 250 mg p.o. t.i.d. with food
times 11 more days , enteric coated aspirin
81 mg q.d. , calcium carbonate 625 mg q.d. , Cardizem CD 300 mg per
day , Premarin .625 mg q.d. , Mevacor 20 mg at night , Proventil MDI
with spacer two puffs q.i.d. times seven days then p.r.n. , Colace
100 mg b.i.d. , vitamin C 500 mg q.d. , Prednisone taper 40 mg times
one day then 30 mg times three days then 20 mg times three days
then 10 mg times three days , NPH Insulin 12 units subcutaneously
q.a.m. and 5 units subcutaneously q.p.m. , regular insulin 4 units
subcutaneously q.a.m. and 6 units subcutaneously q.lunch and 4
units subcutaneously q.p.m. , Lasix 20 mg q.d. , Serevent two puffs
p.o. b.i.d. , Vanceril four puffs b.i.d. , and Lotrimin 1% Cream.
DIET: Low salt , low fat , low cholesterol , ADA.
ACTIVITIES: As tolerated.
Dictated By: ANJELICA SWARTZBECK , M.D. FW96
Attending: GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D. CE9
OW888/0489
Batch: 39586 Index No. V3CYPG10PO D: 1/10/97
T: 3/25/97