842373955 | PUO | 60095707 | | 335697 | 6/29/1999 12:00:00 AM | DEHYDRATION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/11/1999 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 2/28/1999
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: 1. ISCHEMIC HEPATOCELLULAR INJURY.
2. ALCOHOL ABUSE.
3. ALCOHOLIC CARDIOMYOPATHY.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Vomiting , fever , and chills for 18 hours prior to
admission and a cough.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 51 year old
African-American female with a history
of long-standing alcohol abuse with two episodes of alcoholic
pancreatitis in the past. She is status post T2 , N1 floor of the
mouth squamous cell carcinoma. This was treated with resection and
XRT. She presents with vomiting x 18 hours. The patient was in
her usual state of health until two days prior to admission when
she began to develop upper respiratory infection symptoms with
congestion and a productive cough. The cough was initially
productive of white sputum and then later which turned dark in
color. She denies any blood tinged sputum or rust colored sputum.
The patient's cough and upper respiratory infection symptoms
progressed and she began to feel weak. On the morning prior to
admission , the patient awoke from sleep with a coughing fit and
subsequently vomited. She denies any hematemesis at that time.
She repeatedly had episodes of vomiting over the next 28 hours
prior to admission and was unable to drink liquids without
vomiting. She reports that she took approximately eight to ten
Tylenol 500 mg tablets prior to admission for her symptoms. She
became progressively light-headed and dizzy , especially with
standing up. She reports subjective fevers although she did not
take her temperature , and also night sweats. She had one episode
of diarrhea which was nonbloody and loose. Her son , who is an
employee of the Pagham University Of cafeteria , went to
visit her and urged her to go to the emergency room.
In the emergency room , the patient was initially triaged to the
emergent side of the EW , was found to have a blood pressure of
77/50 with a pulse of 138. She was transferred to the acute side
for management.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Notable of alcohol pancreatitis in September
of 1998 and April of 1997. 2. Squamous cell
carcinoma of the head and neck , as previously noted , status post
excision in 1994 with XRT and hyperbaric oxygen therapy. She is
also status post multiple dental extractions and one flap revision.
3. History of total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral
salpingo-oophorectomy in 1985. 4. History of small bowel
obstruction , status post lysis of adhesions , getting an exploratory
laparotomy in September 1997.
ALLERGIES: She has no known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: None.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
SOCIAL HISTORY: One to three cigarettes per day and one-half to
one pint of brandy each day for "a long time."
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As per history of present illness. She denies
any orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea ,
lower extremity edema , chest pain , or shortness of breath. As far
as she knows , she has no known cardiac history.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was relatively well-appearing in no
apparent distress. Her temperature was
98.0. Her blood pressure was 110/84 , her pulse was 101. Her
respiratory rate was 16 and oxygen saturation was 95% on room air.
HEENT: Pupils equal , round and reactive to light and
accommodation; extraocular muscles intact; sclera were muddy
without icterus. Oropharynx was notable for postsurgical changes
on the right side and with dry mucous membranes. Neck: Notable
for no meningismus and jugular venous pressure of approximately 5
cm. The lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. Heart:
Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , gallops , or rubs
auscultated and a nondisplaced point of maximal intensity.
Abdomen: Soft with mild left upper quadrant tenderness , but no
hepatic tenderness. The liver edge was nonpalpable. There was no
spleen tip palpable and bowel sounds were present. The extremities
were notable for no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema and were warm and
perfuse. Neurologically , she was alert and oriented x 3 with
intact cranial nerve. Her strength and sensation were grossly
intact , 5/5 in the upper and lower extremities. Her toes were
down-going bilaterally and her reflexes were symmetric in the upper
and lower extremities. Rectal examination was guaiac negative.
DATA: Laboratory values upon admission showed electrolytes within
normal limits. Magnesium was 1.1. White count 6.5 ,
hematocrit 48 , platelets 200. Differential: 78 polys , 1 band , 12
lymphs and 8 monos. MCV was 104. RDW was 14. ALT 140 , AST 605 ,
alkaline phosphatase 119 , and total bilirubin was 2.6 with a direct
fraction of 1.5. Lipase was 319 , amylase was 44. Her INRs were
1.1 and her prothrombin time was 19.9 Troponin was 0.22.
Chest x-ray was notable for no infiltrates or evidence of heart
failure.
EKG was notable for sinus tachycardia at 117 with a Q-wave of 3 and
Q-wave in V2 and V3. Q-wave inversions were noted in V3 and V6
with no chest pain.
Urinalysis was notable for 2+ protein , trace keto , 3+ blood , 2+
leukocyte esterase , 28 to 30 whites and 2+ squamous cells.
ASSESSMENT: In the emergency room , the patient was acutely treated
for presumed sepsis and received a dose of ceftriaxone
and clindamycin. Urinalysis results indicated that she had a
potential urinary tract infection at that time. Blood cultures
were drawn and the patient received IV hydration. Her EKG was
noted to have new T-wave inversions as compared to previously with
an indeterminate troponin. She was admitted to medicine for
management.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient's hospital course can be summarized
as follows:
1. Cardiovascular: The patient has no known cardiac history. Her
cardiac risk factors include cigarette smoking and postmenopausal
female , age 51. No diabetes mellitus. No known
hypercholesterolemia. No known family history. She does , however ,
drink heavily and has done so for a number of years. She has no
known cardiotoxic effect secondary to alcohol.
The T-wave inversions were noted with an indeterminate troponin.
The patient was admitted in a rule out protocol. She ruled out for
an myocardial infarction with serial CKs which were all below 50.
Her T-wave inversions persisted despite resolution of her sinus
tachycardia. An echocardiogram was obtained which demonstrated
dilated left ventricle of 5.6 cm and an ejection fraction of 25 to
30% with inferoseptal and inferoseptal apical akinesis. No
ventricular thrombus was noted.
Cardiology consultation service was asked to see the patient to
evaluation her in the setting of her new depressed ejection
fraction and focal wall motion abnormalities. Initially , she was
presumed to have coronary disease which had been clinically silent
prior to this. She was treated with aspirin , Lopressor and
Captopril 6.25 mg three times a day. Unfortunately , the patient's
blood pressure did not tolerate this antihypotensive regimen and ,
despite efforts to scale it back in dosages , the majority of the
medicines were held. Nevertheless , the patient's heart rate slowed
to the 60s. She experienced one episode of burning chest pain on
the night of admission which was alleved with Maalox. There were
no EKG changes associated with that pain.
The patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization lab on September
The cardiac catheterization was notable for a right atrial
pressure of 5. Right ventricular pressure of 36/10. Pulmonary
artery pressure was 35/13 , and the pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure was 16. Her cardiac output was 6.13 with an index of
3.69. The left heart catheterization noted normal coronary
arteries without evidence of significant coronary disease. Her
left ventriculogram also noted a preserved ejection fraction with
no focal wall motion abnormalities. Dr. Christeen Jacobson of the
cardiac consultation service followed the patient in house and felt
that the reversal of her wall motion abnormalities could be
attributable to the acute effects of alcoholic cardiotoxicity. The
patient will be discharged on aspirin for primary prevention of
coronary disease , as her other medications were discontinued. The
patient was heparinized for her apical wall motion abnormality and
low ejection fraction while in house and the heparin was
discontinued at the time of catheterization.
2. GI: The patient presented with an acute elevation of her
transaminases. The patient's transaminases were noted to be less
than 10 in September of 1998. Initially , it was felt that these
transaminases might reflect alcoholic hepatitis given her
significant alcohol history. The patient reports that her last
drink was on Sunday prior to admission. She drinks about a pint of
brandy every day. The patient's transaminases continued to rise ,
however. The diagnosis of acute Tylenol toxicity superimposed upon
hepatocellular damage from alcoholic hepatitis was also
entertained. She was empirically started on naphthyl cystine and
received approximately two to three doses , however , that medication
was discontinued upon GI consultation. The patient's transaminases
rose to a level of approximately 4000 AST and 1000 ALT , and the GI
service was consulted. The patient's hepatitic serologies were
sent and were notable for positive hepatitis B core antigen ,
whereas the rest of her hepatitis serologies including hepatitis C ,
hepatitis A and hepatitis B surface antigen were negative. The GI
service felt that her hepatocellular injury was most likely
attributable to an ischemic "shock liver" condition. She had a
right upper quadrant ultrasound as well which demonstrated a
dilatation of the common bile duct to 1 cm with some biliary
sludging but no evidence of obstructive lesions. Given the
patient's isolated increase in AST and ALT and bilirubin without an
increase in alkaline phosphatase , the diagnosis of ischemic
hepatotoxicity was entertained by the GI service. On the date of
discharge , the patient's ALT had fallen to 221 and her AST had
fallen to 50. Her total bilirubin had fallen to 1.1. The patient
was asymptomatic from hepatic perspective throughout her
hospitalization without any evidence of encephalopathy or
asterixis. An isolated ammonia level was sent and it was 45.
3. Infectious disease: The patient had a repeat urinalysis that
was sent on the morning following admission which was indicative of
urinary tract infection. Urine culture eventually indicated an
infection with Enterococcus. The patient received seven days of
ampicillin while in house , following her initial first day dosing
of ceftriaxone and clindamycin. The patient's urinary tract
infection clear symptomatically. She developed a yeast infection
in her vulvar area secondary to antibiotic therapy and this was
treated with topical Nystatin. The patient was not discharged on
antibiotics as she clinically cleared her infection.
4. FVN: The patient had persistent hypomagnesemia while in house
and required significant magnesium repletion. The etiology of this
hypomagnesemia was unclear; however , it was attributable to her
chronic alcohol use and depletion of total magnesium stores. Her
electrolytes clearly need to be followed closely as an outpatient.
5. Hematologic: The patient's INR slightly increased while in
house but this is attributable to heparin bolus and
supratherapeutic prothrombin time. Upon discharge , the patient's
INR had normalized. She received vitamin K 10 mg x 3 days as
empiric treatment for vitamin K depletion secondary to chronic
alcoholism as well as the possibility for hepatic synthetic
dysfunction.
6. Hypotension: The patient's initial presentation for
hypotension was attributable to dehydration; however , it became
clear that the patient normally exists with a low normal blood
pressure of approximately 80 to 100 systolic. It was stressed to
the patient that she must maintain adequate p.o. intake to maintain
her circulating blood volume , as she seemed to be intolerant to the
antihypotensive medicines that were used for cardioprotection. A
random cortisol was drawn and was normal. The issue of potential
renal insufficiency was most likely excluded. The patient will
follow-up on endocrine and electrolyte issues with her primary
doctor.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.day , Nystatin
topical cream , Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
multivitamin one q.day and aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will follow-up with Dr. Sana Albor in
KTDUOO on March . Dr. Sugimoto was involved in the
patient's hospitalization and will provide excellent continuity of
care as an outpatient.
Dictated By: SHELLEY STARNAULD , M.D. AH89
Attending: DOUGLASS N. PETTINGER , M.D. JB3
VG550/4065
Batch: 23311 Index No. J8KQZD64UX D: 11/15/99
T: 10/16/99