682349409 | PUO | 25903098 | | 129249 | 9/10/1997 12:00:00 AM | DILATED CARDIOMYOPATHY | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/19/1997 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/7/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CARDIOMYOPATHY.
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM: NON-INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 57 year-old female
with dilated cardiomyopathy who is
admitted for transplant evaluation. The patient initially
presented in 1991 with substernal chest pain. At that time , it was
thought that she was having a myocardial infarction and
Streptokinase was given; however details are not known. An
echocardiogram at that time showed that her ejection fraction was
35-40% with evidence an anteroseptal myocardial infarction. An ETT
Thallium showed fixed anteroseptal and apical defects. Cardiac
catheterization showed clean coronaries. The patient was referred
to Pagham University Of where an exercise bicycle test
showed 6 minutes and 22 seconds of exercise. Her peak heart rate
was 113 with a peak blood pressure of 140/60 and a peak VO2 of 11.6
ml per kg per minute. The patient apparently did well until about
a year prior to admission when she noted a gradual decrease in her
exercise tolerance. At an outside , she was hospitalized for
congestive heart failure symptoms. Lately , the patient noticed
that she is unable to walk without becoming short of breath. In
January of 1997 , the patient was able to walk one mile , but is now
unable to do so. The patient reports stopping several times while
trying to climb one flight of stairs. She does report orthopnea as
well as paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , no light headedness or
syncope. She does have some palpitations as well as complaints of
twinges under left breast that occur randomly. She does not
experience any leg swelling. The patient saw Dr. Borriello on
September , 1997 at which time an echocardiogram showed a
massively dilated left ventricle with severely depressed systolic
function and an ejection fraction of 15%. All walls were severely
hypokinetic. There was moderate left atrial enlargement and
moderate mitral regurgitation. There was normal right ventricular
size and function and no thrombus or pericardial effusion. The
patient underwent a bicycle test for which achieved 5 minutes and
33 seconds with a maximal heart rate of 108 and a VO2 of 6.4 ml per
kg per minute.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for 1 ) History of bronchitis.
2 ) History of cardiomyopathy as above. 3 )
Non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. 4 ) Status post
hysterectomy at age 40. 5 ) Status post cholecystectomy. 6 )
Status post appendectomy. 7 ) History of panic disorders. 8 )
History of agoraphobia. 9 ) History of alcohol use.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1 ) Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. four times a
week and 5 mg p.o. three times a week.
2 ) Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q. day. 3 ) Enalapril 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4 ) Micronase 2.5 mg p.o. q. day. 5 ) Multivitamins one tablet
p.o. q. day. 6 ) Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. 7 ) Xanax 0.5 mg p.o.
q.i.d. p.r.n.
ALLERGIES: The patient had no known drug allergies.
FAMILY HISTORY: Her parents both died with cardiac problems with
coronary artery disease ( father at age 42 , mother
at age 62 ).
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone with an apartment next to
her son. She has worked as a house cleaner. She
has an 18 pack year history of cigarette smoking; she quit smoking
30 years ago. She does have a history of heavy alcohol use. She
is recently divorced.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is pleasant in no apparent
distress. The patient is afebrile with a
blood pressure of 110/76 , heart rate 70 and a respiratory rate of
20 with oxygen saturation of 97% on room air. Her head examination
is remarkable for upper dentures. Neck shows jugular venous
pressure of 7 cm. Carotid upstrokes are decreased and without
bruits. There was no lymphadenopathy. Lungs show occasional
bibasilar rales. Heart shows regular rate and rhythm with distant
heart sounds. There is a left ventricular heave and an S3 present.
The abdomen is obese with bowel sounds present , soft , non-tender
without masses. The extremities show 1+ pitting edema bilaterally.
Pulses are intact bilaterally and the extremities are warm.
Neurological examination is non-focal with intact sensation and
motor examination. Deep tendon reflexes are symmetric and 2+
bilaterally with downgoing toes bilaterally.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for a transplantation
work-up. She was catheterized on February ,
1997. The catheterization showed no coronary artery disease noted.
The atrium showed 16 mm of mercury mean pressure. The right
ventricle showed 48/18 mm of mercury. The PA showed 48/34 mm of
mercury with a mean pressure of 39 mm of mercury. The pulmonary
capillary wedge pressure showed a mean of 30 mm of mercury.
Cardiac output and cardiac index showed 4.4 liters per minute and
2.2 liters per minute per meter squared. The patient was briefly
transferred to the Coronary Care Unit secondary to her elevated
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure and the presence of her
Swan-Ganz catheter. The patient was diuresed with good response.
She was transferred back to the General Medicine Team where
diuresis with intravenous Lasix was continued. She tolerated
Enalapril and Lasix well. By the end of her hospitalization , she
was taking 12.5 mg of Enalapril b.i.d. and 40 mg of Lasix p.o.
b.i.d. She had been taken off her Coumadin and had been placed on
Heparin during this hospitalization. The patient did experience
some hematuria toward the end of her hospitalization which was felt
to be secondary to Foley trauma while she was in the Coronary Care
Unit.
As part of the patient's transplant evaluation , she had a PPD with
controls placed which showed that her PPD was negative and her
controls were positive. The patient underwent a Dental consult as
well as a Psychiatric consult. The Psychiatric evaluation was
favorable for transplantation. The Dental consult involved the
patient having panoramic x-rays. Thyrology showed a
cytomegalovirus IgG being positive , a cytomegalovirus IgM being
equivocal , and Epstein-Barr virus anti-VCA IgG at 640 , an
Epstein-Barr virus anti-VCA IgM being less than 10 and a mucal
screen being greater than or equal to 32 , a varicella zoster titer
of 512 , a Toxoplasma IgG being positive , a Toxoplasma IgM being
negative. Abdominal ultrasound showed a mildly dilated common bile
and pancreatic duct and showed that this patient was status post
cholecystectomy.
While the patient maybe a good transplant candidate , it was felt
that her weight was a negative factor in her potential for
transplant. The patient will be pursuing cardiac rehabilitation
and weight loss if she is to be considered for transplant in the
future. The patient was discharged.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1 ) Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.
headache. 2 ) Xanax 0.5 mg p.o. q.i.d.
3 ) Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q. day. 4 ) Enalapril 12.5 mg p.o.
b.i.d. 5 ) Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. 6 ) Micronase 1.25 mg p.o. q.
day. 7 ) Multivitamins one tablet p.o. q. day. 8 ) Coumadin 2.5
mg p.o. q. day on even days and 5 mg p.o. q. day on odd days.
INSTRUCTIONS: The patient was instructed that she should increase
her diuresis at home if she noticed an increase in
her weight and was instructed to see a physician for continued for
weight increases due to fluid accumulation.
Dictated By: TERENCE NICKOLAS , M.D. TD62
Attending: SACHIKO BORRIELLO , M.D. EO3
MT288/1120
Batch: 74735 Index No. NRTYW3BEN D: 10/10/97
T: 2/20/97