313615200 | PUO | 85677707 | | 5892053 | 11/20/2005 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/20/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/15/2005
ATTENDING: RAABE , SUNSHINE M.D.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Heart failure.
LISTS OF PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES: Status post cardiac transplant
in 1993 , obesity , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ,
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , chronic renal insufficiency
with a baseline of creatinine of 1.5 , hepatitis B , hypertension ,
osteoporosis , status post L3 compression fracture , status post
left hip fracture with replacement in September 2005 , complicated by
infection necessitating removal , debridement , and deconditioning.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Pinnette is a 67-year-old
female with multiple medical comorbidities and a past medical
history significant for cardiac transplant in 1993 , and hip
replacement in September 2005 , complicated by wound infection , and need
for prolonged rehabilitation who presented from Oswe Mastook Hospital to Car University Medical Center with three days of
progressive worsening shortness of breath. Her chest x-ray was
consistent with congestive heart failure , and she was transferred
to Pagham University Of with the request of her daughter
for further management of her heart failure. Here , her mental
status was borderline upon admission , but it improved with
discontinuation of standing analgesic and decreasing of her
clonazepam. A head CT showed no acute processes. She had a
right upper arm cellulitis and urinary tract infection on
screening urinalysis. She was anemic. She was found to be
vancomycin resistant Enterococcus positive , but repeated cultures
demonstrated MRSA negative. Her inpatient issues included
management of her heart failure , right upper extremity
cellulitis , urinary tract infection , chronic anemia , diabetes ,
and evaluation of her hip by orthopedics.
ALLERGIES: She had allergies to penicillin and codeine , but the
reactions are unknown.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Vitamin C , Imuran , PhosLo , iron
sulfate , Deltasone , Coumadin , Aranesp , Dilaudid for pain ,
lactulose , Reglan , Sarna topical , Senokot , Ambien for sleep ,
miconazole powder , cyclosporine , Celexa , and Lasix 80 mg once per
day.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was afebrile. Her blood pressure was
130/57 , and her pulse 120 in sinus tachycardia. She was 95%
saturated on 3 liters. Physical exam was significant for
bibasilar crackles in her lungs. 2+ edema in her legs to her
knees. A 5 cm x 5 cm area of warm erythema in her right upper
extremity and a left hip wound with packing in place granulation
tissue.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: CT of her head , which showed no acute
processes. Echocardiogram of her heart showed an ejection
fraction of 55%. Normal right ventricle and structure with mild
to moderately reduced systolic function in her right ventricle.
Moderately dilated left atrium , moderately dilated right atrium ,
normal aortic valve , mild to moderate mitral regurgitation , and
structurally normal tricuspid valve. Right upper arm ultrasound ,
which showed no evidence of venous obstruction.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: Ms. Pinnette 's inpatient issues
included management of her heart failure , right upper arm
extremity cellulitis , urinary tract infection , chronic anemia ,
diabetes and evaluation of her hip by orthopedics. For her heart
failure , she was diuresed with IV and transitioned to oral
torsemide and they entered discharge dose of torsemide 200 mg
p.o. twice per day. Her admission weight was 133 kg and her
discharge weight 122 kg. She should continue on her current
torsemide and limit her daily salt intake , and restrict herself
to 2 liters per day for her right upper extremity cellulitis.
She was given a five-day course of levofloxacin ( used to address
recurrent UTI ) and then a two-day course of Ancef , her cellulitis
cleared with this regimen. For her urinary tract infection , she
was initially treated with levofloxacin and transitioned to
Bactrim based on antibiogram sensitivities. A long-term Foley
catheter was removed. Repeat cultures showed bacteria in her
urine; however , she was clinically asymptomatic , it was felt that
this is more consistent with colonization and no further
treatment was instituted. If needed for further antibiotics , a
PICC line was placed on May , 2005 , after her prior PICC
line clotted. Prior to discharge , a new Foley catheter was
placed and she was incontinent of urine and overall more
comfortable with catheter in place. While on Bactrim for her
UTI , her creatinine rose to a peak of 2.0 , it was unclear whether
this raise was due to diuresis or the antibiotic. With cessation
of the antibiotic , her creatinine trended downward to her
baseline at 1.6. For her chronic anemia , the patient was
continued on iron ( which was increased to three times per day )
and darbepoetin , folate was added. She was asymptomatic from her
chronic anemia. She was given two units of packed red blood
cells in May , 2005 , and two more units on February ,
2005 , and she responded appropriately to this. Her discharge
hematocrit was 30. Her hip was evaluated by orthopedics. They
felt her hip was healing well. She should be continued on
wet-to-dry dressings. No further orthopedic intervention is
planned. She can bear her full weight on her hip. At discharge ,
the patient was hemodynamically stable , afebrile , and breathing
comfortably on three liters of oxygen. She was discharged to
Hona Barn Medical Center and should work aggressively towards
reconditioning.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Vitamin C 500 mg twice per day , Imuran 25
mg daily , PhosLo 667 mg three times per day , clonazepam 0.25 mg
twice per day , cyclosporine 50 mg twice daily , Colace 100 mg
twice daily , iron sulfate 325 mg three times per day , folate 1 mg
daily , Dilaudid 2 mg every six hours as needed for pain , please
hold this sedated for respirations less than 10 per minute ,
insulin NPH 14 units every evening , insulin NPH 46 units every
morning , lactulose 30 mL four times per day as needed for
constipation , prednisone 5 mg every morning , Sarna topical every
day apply to affected areas , multivitamin daily , Coumadin 2.5 mg
daily , goal INR 2 to 3 , zinc sulfate 220 mg daily , Ambien 5 mg
before bed as needed for insomnia , torsemide 200 mg by mouth two
times per day , Fosamax 70 mg once per week , miconazole nitrate 2%
powder topical two times per day apply to affected areas as
needed , Advair Diskus 250/50 one puff inhaled twice per day ,
esomeprazole 20 mg once per day , DuoNeb 3/0.5 mg inhaled every
six hours as needed for shortness of breath , Aranesp 50 mcg
subcutaneously once per week , NovoLog sliding scale before meals ,
Lexapro 20 mg once per day , Maalox one to two tablets every six
hours as needed for upset stomach , and Lipitor 20 mg once per
day.
OUTSTANDING ISSUES: Include following INR the goal of 2 to 3 ,
following weight and clinical signs of volume overload , following
up on loose stools for possible Clostridium difficile infection.
Following clinical signs for evidence of urinary tract infection
treating with antibiotics as necessary.
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN: Dr. Gaylene Faniel
eScription document: 7-2388267 SSSten Tel
CC: Gaylene Faniel M.D.
Bay Ing Son
Ak
Dictated By: THEILING , BREE
Attending: RAABE , SUNSHINE
Dictation ID 5048135
D: 10/4/05
T: 10/4/05