392986061 | PUO | 09031082 | | 5451041 | 3/28/2006 12:00:00 AM | HTN EMERGENCY | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/23/2006 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 8/2/2006
ATTENDING: STEVINSON , DEE H.
SERVICE: Pids Heim
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Pneumonia.
LIST OF OTHER PROBLEMS/DIAGNOSES: Altered mental status ,
seizure , hypertensive emergency , end-stage renal disease and
hepatitis C.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 53-year-old man
with type 1 diabetes , end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis ,
history of polysubstance abuse and hepatitis C who was in his
usual state of health until hemodialysis on 2/18/06 , when he was
noted to be lethargic after hemodialysis. He came to the
emergency room where he also complained of headache and chest
pain. He was noted to have blood pressure of 202/91 and lateral
ST depression on EKG and a mild troponin leak. He was given
nitroglycerin paste , labetolol 10 mg IV with resolution of the
headache , chest pain and decrease of the blood pressure into the
160s. On chest x-ray , he was also noted to have bilateral lower
lobe pneumonia. The patient remained lethargic. The head CT was
negative. Of note , the patient has a recent admission to the
Norap Valley Hospital with hypoglycemia , pneumonia and C. difficile
colitis for which he is completing a course of vancomycin ,
Levaquin and Flagyl. The patient lives in a nursing home. The
records show that his baseline blood pressure is 160-180
systolic. He has had hypertension to the 200s for a week prior
to admission.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Notable for end-stage renal disease on
hemodialysis , type 1 diabetes for 30 years , poorly-controlled
hypertension , hepatitis B and C with previous treatment with
interferon , possible ethanol-related liver disease , asthma ,
peptic ulcer disease and peripheral vascular disease with history
of toe amputation.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone , although recently he
has been living in a nursing home. He is separated from his wife
and children who live out of state. He is a former smoker and
alcohol abuser. He has a history of heroin use and cocaine use
but currently not abusing either.
ALLERGIES: The patient is noted to have an allergy to aspirin
with the reaction being epistaxis , although this is not a true
allergy.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , notable findings were an
altered mental status. The patient was somnolent and confused
but was without other significant physical findings.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Cardiovascular: The patient was admitted with hypertensive
emergency with mild troponin leak likely secondary to demand
ischemia. Labetolol 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. was added to his
antihypertensive regimen this admission and the patient's blood
pressure was reasonably well controlled throughout the admission.
2. Infectious disease: The patient is being empirically treated
for likely cavitary pneumonia that was observed upon chest CT.
The patient has clinically improved on ciprofloxacin 500 mg p.o.
q.d. and will be discharged on a 7-day course of the same. The
patient also has a history of C. difficile colitis and has been
treated with Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. during this admission and
was discharged on a 14-day course of the same. Blood cultures
during this admission have been negative to date. The patient
was PPD negative and induced sputum was negative by acid fast
tests for evidence of tuberculosis.
3. GI: The patient complained of left lower quadrant pain prior
to dialysis on 10/30 and some involuntary guarding was apparently
appreciated. CT of the abdomen ruled out
an acute abdominal process and the patient has been without
abdominal pain throughout the rest of the hospitalization. The
patient's laboratory studies are notable for an elevated alkaline phosphatase
with unclear etiology. The patient has no Murphy
sign or other signs of cholecystitis that could be appreciated.
4. Neurology: The patient presented with altered mental status
on admission. He was confused and somnolent. Within 2 days of admission , he
was much improved and was alert and oriented x3.
The altered mental status was most likely secondary to pneumonia.
The patient reportedly had a tonic-clonic seizure in
hemodialysis on 11/12/06. Neurology was consulted and thought
this was most likely secondary to fluid , electrolytes shifts in
dialysis. The patient had both EEG and brain MRI , which were
normal during this admission.
5. Renal. The patient has end-stage renal disease on
hemodialysis and dialysis was continued Monday , Wednesday and
Friday according to his usual schedule.
6. Endocrine. The patient is a brittle type 1 diabetic and
early in his hospital course , he had frequent episode of
hypoglycemia which responded to an AMP of D50. the patient's
insulin regimen at the time of discharge , on which his sugars were
reasonably well controlled without episodes of hypoglycemia , was
Lantus 4 units q.a.m. Lantus 4 units q.p.m. with NovoLog 3 units
with breakfast and 3 units with lunch and NovoLog 2 units with
dinner and sliding scale NovaLog used only when fingersticks were
greater than 400.
7. Pulmonology The patient has left lower lobe cavitary
lesion observed on chest CT that may be malignant , although it
most likely represented pneumonia. He needs to follow up chest
CT in 6-8 weeks to confirm if this lesion was pneumonia and that
it has completely resolved.
The patient had a history of COPD/asthma and continued on Advair during this
admission.
At the time of discharge , the patient was afebrile with heart rate
in the 90s , systolic pressure ranging from 140-160/60-80 and
saturating 97% to 100% on room air.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Include aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , Lipitor
80 mg p.o. q.d. , ciprofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.24h. for a 7-day
course after discharge , esomeprazole 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Advair
Diskus 100/50 mcg 1 puff in INH b.i.d. , folic acid 1 mg p.o.
q.d. , NovoLog 3 units subcu with breakfast , NovoLog 3 units subcu
with lunch , NovoLog 2 units subcu with dinner , Lantus 4 units
subcu q.a.m. , Lantus 4 units subcu q.p.m. and NovoLog sliding
scale if the fingersticks greater than 400 , labetolol 200 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , lisinopril 80 mg p.o. q.d. , Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. for
14 days following discharge , Nephrocaps 1 tab p.o. q.d. ,
nifedipine XL 30 mg p.o. q.d. and Sevelamer 2.4 g p.o. t.i.d.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: Regarding followup tests that are needed
after discharge , the patient should schedule to have a CT of the
chest 6-8 weeks following discharge to rule out malignancy in the
left lower lobe. The patient should continue on regular Monday ,
Wednesday , Friday dialysis according to his usual regimen. The patient should
complete the 7 day course of Ciprofloxacin that was prescribed. The patient
should complete the 14 day course of Flagyl as prescribed. The
patient should follow up with his primary care physician within 2
days of discharge. The patient should be discharged to skilled
nursing facility from which he was admitted.
eScription document: 7-2099271 BFFocus
Dictated By: WOLFENSPERGER , NAOMI
Attending: STEVINSON , DEE
Dictation ID 2980757
D: 1/17/06
T: 1/17/06