461171537 | PUO | 89762298 | | 853477 | 6/15/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/5/1993 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/20/1993
ssssDIAGNOSIS: HEREDITARY ANGIOEDEMA CRISIS.
PAROXYSMAL ATRIAL FIBRILLATION.
SHOCK.
C1 ESTERASE INHIBITOR DEFICIENCY
( HEREDITARY ANGIOEDEMA ).
OSTEOARTHRITIS.
HYPOTHYROIDISM.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 71 year old with a
long history of hereditary angioedema ,
history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , who presented with
sudden onset of abdominal pain , shock and atrial fibrillation. The
patient has a long history of C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency ,
status post emergent tracheostomy times 3 in the distant past , as
well as a history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in the recent
past. She has failed Quinidine and Propafenone in the past , and
she is maintained in normal sinus rhythm on Sotalol. The patient
was admitted for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with increased
ventricular response and was treated with an increased Sotalol dose
and converted to normal sinus rhythm without electrical
cardioversion. The patient was most recently discharged on
10 of January Three days prior to this admission , the patient presented
with a flu-like illness with a temperature of 103 orally , and she
stayed in bed. The next day , she was afebrile and felt better. On
the day of admission , the patient awoke at 7:00 am with sudden
onset of excruciating abdominal pain and she called Bussadd Southrys Community Hospital She went by ambulance there. She said this pain is
typical of her attacks , except was much worse than ever before. On
arrival at Bussadd Southrys Community Hospital , the patient was found to be
hypotensive , clammy , and she was given C1 esterase inhibitor , but
remained persistently hypotensive and was transferred to Pagham University Of Her she had a systolic blood pressure of 60
and was found to be in atrial fibrillation. A CVL groin line was
placed and she was given vigorous intravenous fluid hydration. The
patient was started on Vancomycin , gentamicin and Flagyl to cover a
possible bowel source for sepsis. The pains rapidly decreased over
the next 2 hours , typical of her attacks , but still persisted
mildly. Her blood pressure stabilized and she remained afebrile.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY included the C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency ,
hereditary angioedema , paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , history of
subdural hematoma secondary to Coumadin , status post appendectomy ,
status post total abdominal hysterectomy , osteoarthritis.
ALLERGIES included multiple foods , sulfa , PCN , Novacaine.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , her temperature was 95.8 ,
blood pressure 90/palpable , heart rate in
the 120's and irregularly irregular. Head , eyes , ears , nose and
throat examination showed pupils were equal , round , reactive to
light , extraocular movements were intact. Neck was without
swelling , without stridor , no adenopathy. Lungs were clear. Heart
had S1 , S2 , irregularly irregular. Abdomen was diffusely tender ,
positive bowel sounds , no rebound , slightly distended. Rectal
examination was guaiac negative. Neurologic examination showed she
was alert and oriented times 3 , cranial nerves intact.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Significant values included blood urea
nitrogen 21 , creatinine 1.3 , white count
11 , hematocrit 53.2 , arterial blood gases were pH 7.4 , oxygen 413 ,
PCO2 32 , on 100% face mask. Abdominal computerized tomography scan
showed some thickening and some mild edema of her bowel wall , and
moderate to large amount of ascites with no evidence of
perforation. Chest x-ray was clear. The electrocardiogram showed
atrial fibrillation at 150 , normal axis and intervals , no ischemic
changes.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted and given vigorous
intravenous fluids. Her Sotalol dose of 120
milligrams twice a day was increased to 160 milligrams twice a day.
Her Stanzolol dose of 2 milligrams by mouth every other day was
increased to 2 milligrams by mouth every 6 hours. The patient was
monitored very carefully , ruled out for myocardial infarction with
flat creatinine phosphokinase levels. Her abdominal pain was gone
by the next hospital day , and her electrolytes normalized. The
patient had some mild diarrhea , which slowly resolved , and she
remained in atrial fibrillation on the increased Sotalol dose. On
22 of July , the patient underwent DC-cardioversion and was given 100
joules times 2 , and then converted with 200 joules. She remained
in normal sinus rhythm. Her QTC was .467 on her increased dose of
Sotalol , and so she was maintained on this. The patient was
discharged in excellent condition.
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to home. MEDICATIONS
ON DISCHARGE were Sotalol 160 milligrams by mouth
twice a day , Stanzolol 2 milligrams by mouth each day , Synthroid 15
micrograms by mouth each day , aspirin 1 by mouth each day. The
patient is to FOLLOW-UP with Dr. Annette Schoultz
Dictated By: KAM R. ISA , M.D. JY58
Attending: ANNETTE SCHOULTZ , M.D. JW7
TK879/0043
Batch: 3771 Index No. NVZSK7UIE D: 5/24/93
T: 1/26/93
CC: ROSALIA M. ROLSON , M.D. RA3