759584010 | PUO | 47947002 | | 297604 | 6/11/2000 12:00:00 AM | PNEUMONIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/18/2000 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 2/13/2000
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: LEGIONELLA PNEUMONIA , BILATERAL PLEURAL
EFFUSIONS.
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 57-year-old
female with a distant history of
ovarian cancer , rheumatoid arthritis with systemic lupus
erythematosus features , and history of TTP , status post
splenectomy , who was admitted with fever , shortness of breath and
pleuritic chest pain. She was in her usual state of health until
October of this year , when she began to experience dyspnea on
exertion , shortness of breath one week after her husband died.
Initially she thought it was anxiety secondary to her husband's
death , but this shortness of breath began to increase and occurred
on rest. She also reports that she has had a recent history of
orthopnea and says that for the past few months she has had
bilateral lower extremity edema with gradual onset. She also has
had a dry , non productive cough for the past month and three days
ago began to have fevers up to 102 , chills , nausea , dry heaves ,
headache and diarrhea. The shortness of breath has increased in
intensity and yesterday she began to experience sharp pleuritic
right chest pain. She denied productive cough , neck stiffness ,
photophobia , sick contacts , chest pain , palpitations , or recent
travel. Of note , the patient had been on Plaquenil previously but
she self discontinued this three months ago because she has been
feeling well. She has had no recurrence of her rheumatoid
arthritis symptoms , which for her include arthritis in her hands.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history is significant for
diabetes type 2 , hypertension , TTP , history
of splenectomy , history of Haemophilus influenzae and pneumococcal
sepsis , rheumatoid arthritis with systemic lupus erythematosus
features , history of osteomyelitis in the right ankle , history of
ovarian cancer in 1989 , status post chemotherapy , total abdominal
hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.
ALLERGIES: She has no known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: Her medications include diltiazem 240 mg a day ,
lisinopril 40 mg a day , Naprosyn 500 mg b.i.d. , NPH
insulin 24 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , Entex-LA.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives with her son. Her husband recently
died in October of this year with esophageal
cancer. She has no alcohol or tobacco use. She is an elementary
school teacher.
FAMILY HISTORY: Family history is significant for coronary artery
disease as well as breast carcinoma.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination , the patient was
afebrile with a temperature of 98 , pulse in
the 100s , blood pressure 182/99. The patient's oxygen saturation
was 92% on 5 liters. She was alert and oriented , in mild
respiratory distress. The skin was without rash. HEENT: Not
significant. NECK: The neck was supple with no lymphadenopathy or
thyromegaly. CARDIOVASCULAR: Tachycardic , regular rhythm , without
murmurs , gallops or rubs. She had no jugular venous distention.
LUNGS: The lungs revealed markedly decreased breath sounds at the
bases and faint crackles at the bases on the right. ABDOMEN:
Abdominal examination was completely benign. No hepatomegaly or
masses. She did have a scar from the splenectomy. EXTREMITIES:
The extremities showed 1+ edema bilaterally. There were no cords.
Negative Homans' sign. There was no clubbing or cyanosis.
NEUROLOGICAL: The neurological examination was intact.
LABORATORY DATA: Significant laboratory studies included a
sodium of 137 , white blood cell count of 19.5
with 2 bands and 86 polys as well as Howell-Jolly bodies.
Hematocrit was 38.6 , platelets 495 , 000. CK was 50 , troponin was 0.
D-dimer was greater than 1 , 000. Chest x-ray revealed large
bilateral pleural effusions , left greater than right. She had a CT
scan which was a limited study that showed no evidence of a
pulmonary embolism. It showed a questionable infiltrate in the
right lung versus compressive atelectasis.
HOSPITAL COURSE: In summary , this is a 57-year-old female with a
distant history of ovarian cancer and TTP , who
was admitted with likely community acquired pneumonia and bilateral
moderate to large pleural effusions. Initially the patient was
given cefuroxime and levofloxacin in the emergency department for a
presumed community acquired pneumonia. She also was given Lasix
for diuresis , given there was a question of whether or not she was
having any heart failure. Given her elevated D-dimer , she had a
spiral CT scan of the chest which did not reveal any evidence of
pulmonary embolus and also had lower extremity Dopplers which were
negative. However , there was a continuous Doppler wave form on the
study which raised the suspicion of a more proximal venous
compression. Therefore , she underwent abdominal CT scan , which did
not show any evidence of venous obstruction as well as lymphatic
obstruction.
1 ) INFECTIOUS DISEASE: The patient was admitted and treated for
what was thought to initially be just a community acquired
pneumonia with large effusions , likely peripneumonic in nature.
She initially was started on cefuroxime and azithromycin by the
General Medicine team. She was pancultured as well as had
Legionella urine antigen sent. Subsequently her Legionella urine
antigen became positive and repeat test again revealed that this
was in fact positive. At that time , levofloxacin was added given
recommendations from the Infectious Disease Service. She was
continued on azithromycin; however , cefuroxime was discontinued as
there was no evidence of other etiology of her pneumonia. She
underwent thoracentesis late the evening of her admission , which
revealed a transudate. Cytology was sent on this and was negative
as well as all cultures were negative from this. She underwent
multiple bilateral therapeutic pleuracentesis , given that the
effusions were quite large. Ultrasound revealed multiple
loculations on the right side and she had to undergo right sided
ultrasound guided thoracentesis to remove fluid. In addition , the
patient was aggressively diuresed with Lasix to help with the
effusions.
The patient continued to have a high oxygen requirement throughout
the hospitalization despite aggressive thoracentesis. However , as
she was diuresed aggressively , her oxygen requirement was down from
initially 5 to 6 liters per nasal cannula. Prior to discharge , she
was off of O2 except that she had desaturations to 86% with
ambulation. Therefore , she was discharged home with p.r.n. oxygen.
She remained afebrile throughout the rest of the hospitalization
and her pulmonary status continued to improve prior to discharge.
Other complications during the hospitalization included an elevated
platelet count up to 800. This was thought likely to be acute
phase reactant secondary to infection and fever and this will be
followed as an outpatient. In addition to this , she had an
elevated CA-125 level. This was discussed with her GYN oncologist
and he felt that this was likely from the effusions , but again
should be followed as an outpatient to make sure that this resolves
as the effusions continue to resolve. Abdominal CT scan , which was
done to rule out more proximal venous compression did not reveal
any recurrence of ovarian cancer.
The patient was discharged to home on October , 2000 , with services
as well as p.r.n. oxygen. She was in stable condition. She had no
problems with her diabetes , hypertension , rheumatoid arthritis
throughout the rest of her hospitalization.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Her discharge medications include Lasix
80 mg b.i.d. , insulin sliding scale ,
lisinopril 40 mg a day , levofloxacin 500 mg times 14 days ,
Cardizem-CD 240 mg p.o. q.d.
FOLLOW-UP: She is to follow-up with Dr. Blacknall in one week and
she is to have her platelets checked as well as a
CA-125 as her Legionella pneumonia resolves.
Dictated By: MA YEAGLEY , M.D. AE12
Attending: DEANDRA L. GILFOY , M.D. HC88
JY848/1957
Batch: 32245 Index No. Z6VU8K9CNG D: 7/6
T: 11/1
CC: 1. CORDELIA D. BLACKNALL , M.D. DB91