189350399 | PUO | 02584657 | | 738593 | 8/25/1998 12:00:00 AM | CEREBRO VASCULAR ACCIDENT | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/10/1998 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 1/19/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: LEFT SUBCORTICAL STROKE.
PROBLEM LIST: 1 ) DIABETES MELLITUS. 2 ) MULTINODULAR GOITER.
3 ) HYPERTENSION. 4 ) ANEMIA , SICKLE CELL TRAIT.
5 ) STATUS POST TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY ,
CERVICAL DYSPLASIA. 6 ) BURSITIS AND MULTIPLE
SITES OF ARTHRITIS. 7 ) HISTORY OF PHYSICAL ABUSE.
8 ) VITILIGO. 9 ) HEMORRHOIDS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Approximately two days prior to
presentation , while preparing to
return to bed , the patient noted decrease feeling in her right leg
and right arm clumsiness. She returned to bed and remained there
all day long. She fell onto her bottom secondary to unsteadiness.
She has remained on the couch , except to get water since one day
prior to admission. She was unable to stand up on the day of
admission. This event was felt to be different from her usual
paralysis ( she had had similar symptoms of this before and had
waited for it to resolve ) , except that this event had lasted
greater than 24 hours and she also began to notice dysarthria. She
had not taken insulin for several days , but has had decreased p.o.
intake secondary to her inability to move. Of note , she had
difficulty swallowing on the morning of admission.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: She had no fevers , chills , vomiting or loss
of consciousness. No seizure activity. No
head or neck trauma. No vertigo or tenderness. No recent change
in medications. No chest pain or shortness of breath , no
photophobia or neck stiffness.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: History of diabetes mellitus , multinodular
goiter , hypertension , anemia and sickle cell
trait , status post total abdominal hysterectomy , history of
cervical dysplasia , bursitis and multiple musculoskeletal
complaints , just a history of physical abuse and vitiligo ,
hemorrhoids.
MEDICATIONS: Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 milligrams once a day ,
Norvasc 5 milligrams once a day , Taxol 28 milligrams
once a day , Premarin 0.625 milligrams once a day , Trazodone ,
insulin 12 units of regular and 50 units of NPH in the morning and
14 units of regular and 10 units of NPH in the evening. She had
also been taking Ansaid 100 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. joint
pain. She is also reportedly taking a baby aspirin 81 milligrams
once a day.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is on disability. She lives alone as
a widow. No clear history of tobacco or ethanol
use. She has two children. She is independent with ADLs and
mobility.
FAMILY HISTORY: Familial intermittent paralytic syndrome.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature was 97.1 , heart rate 110 ,
respirations 20 , blood pressure 130/70 ,
oxygen saturation 100% on room air. Glucose is 388. Mental status
examination: The patient was alert and oriented times three
following three step command across the midline. No apraxia.
Positive dysarthria. Repetition intact. Memory 3/3 immediately
and 3/3 at 5 minutes. Cranial nerves: Pupils 3-2 bilaterally.
Right central facial paralysis. No pallor or droop. Decreased
sensation to light touch , pinprick and temperature on the right.
Tears well bilaterally. She cannot shrug her right shoulder.
Motor and tone flaccid on the right. Strength: Right hemiplegia
( can only wiggle toes ) , left strength 4-5/5 ( poor effort ). Deep
tendon reflexes are 2+ at the biceps , 1+ at the knees , 0-1 at the
ankle with an upgoing right toe. Sensation: Decreased sensation
to light touch , pinprick and vibration. Temperature on the right
including trunk. Gait not assessed. HEENT: Atraumatic. Neck
supple. Lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally. Cardiovascular:
Regular rate and rhythm. Abdomen: Soft and nontender. Positive
bowel sounds. Extremities: No edema.
EKG: Sinus tachycardia at 104 per report when compared with EKG
of January , no significant change. Chest x-ray: No
evidence of active cardiopulmonary disease. CT scan of the head on
8/17/98 showed low density area present in the posterior limb of
the left intracapsular capsule consistent with an infarct.
Otherwise , no significant abnormality was seen. Mild age
appropriate involutional changes were present.
LABORATORY: Showed a glucose of 353 , sodium 138 , potassium 4.9 ,
chloride 98 , CO2 28 , BUN 33 , creatinine 1.1 , calcium
10.3 , magnesium 2.0 , troponin 0.09. White count 8.4 , hematocrit
39.8 , platelet count 367 , 000. PT 12.1 , PTT 19.5. INR 1.0.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: Ms. Mina is a 57-year-old female with a
past medical history of hypertension ,
diabetes mellitus , multinodular goiter , arthritis and questionable
recurrent bouts of generalized weakness who was admitted for new
onset of right sided weakness ( three days prior to admission ) ,
right leg numbness and weakness , right arm clumsiness followed by
dysarthria.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. NEUROLOGY: The patient was felt to have a probable subcortical
stroke of the left hemisphere with preservation of the speech
processing abilities with dense motor and sensory involvement.
This was felt to potentially represent an MCA branch occlusion with
increased edema versus a large lacuna. In addition , given her
history , the team was unable to rule out the possibility of an
embolic event. Therefore , the patient was admitted and ruled out
for a myocardial infarction. Her CKs were 25 , 37 , 37 and 32. She
was placed on a cardiac monitor with no evidence of arrhythmia.
she was placed on subcu heparin and started on full dose aspirin
325 milligrams p.o. q.d.
In order to further work up the etiology for stroke , the patient
had an echocardiogram done which revealed evidence of concentric
LVH with preserved systolic function , calculated ejection fraction
of 55%. Other than nonspecific septal abnormality , there was no
evidence of regional wall motion dysfunction. There were early
changes of mitral annular calcification present , some increased
excursion of the mitral leaflet , but this is associated with only
trivial regurgitation. Trileaflet aortic valve without
dysfunction. One plus tricuspid regurgitation. Peak doppler flow
velocity across the tricuspid valve reached 2.5 meters per second
consistent with normal right heart systolic pressures. There was
no evidence of effusion. In addition , the patient underwent
carotid noninvasive studies which revealed no evidence of
hemodynamically significant disease in either carotid artery with
those arteries having minimal plaque and 1-25% stenosis. In
addition , the patient had an MRI/MRA to further evaluate potential
lesions. On MRI there was a focal area of increased T2 signal in
the posterior limb of the left internal capsule , close the genu.
This area demonstrated restricted diffusion on EPI diffusion ,
weighted sequence. A similar smaller area of signal abnormality
was noted in the left globus pallidus adjacent to the left internal
capsule abnormality. These areas represent subacute infarctions.
The ventricles and sulci were minimally prominent , consistent with
the patient's age. There was no other signal abnormality noted.
Major vascular flow voids were normal. There was no mass or mass
effect. Three D , TOF MRN angiogram on the circle of Willis and its
major tributaries did not demonstrate any abnormality. Incidental
note was made of a dominant right vertebral artery. The formal
impression revealed subacute infarcts involving the posterior limb
of the internal capsule on the left as well as the left globus
pallidus. Unremarkable MR angiogram on the circle of Willis.
In addition , given the patient's history of polymyalgias , an ESR
and C-reactive protein were obtained. The ESR was 46. The
C-reactive protein was 1.13. The stroke service was asked to
comment on the possibility of a vasculitic process. In addition ,
the patient's primary rheumatologist was consulted as well. The
patient's primary rheumatologist felt that the patient's stroke was
most likely due to small vessel disease associated with diabetes
and hypertension. He felt there was no evidence for a vasculitis.
He therefore suggested to continue aspirin , but in higher doses to
alleviate her left shoulder pain. The patient did not feel that
she had any vasculitic process. They therefore recommended
continuing aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d. , checking a serum
homocystine which remains pending at the time of this dictation ,
reviewing her carotid studies ( mentioned above ) , and continue with
physical therapy occupational therapy and speech therapy.
PT and OT were consulted as well as Speech Therapy.
In addition to continuing the patient on aspirin , continuing subcu
heparin while the patient was immobile , the patient's
antihypertensives were held in order to maintain a systolic blood
pressure between 140-160 and a diastolic blood pressure between
85-90 for the first ten days following her stroke. For the first
few days , the patient was kept in a lying position as much as
possible and her activity level was gradually increased to the
point where she was participating in full PT/OT. At the time of
this dictation , the patient's Norvasc continued to be held with
excellent control of her blood pressure between systolic of
140-160. It should not be reinitiated until roughly ten days after
her stroke.
The patient had relatively poor return of function during her
hospital stay , but was felt to be a good candidate for potential
rehabilitation. Therefore when her medical issues were stable , she
was considered ready for transfer to a rehabilitation facility in
an attempt to further improve her neurologic function. As noted
previously , the patient's antihypertensives should be reinitiated
gradually with a goal systolic blood pressure between 140-160 with
a diastolic blood pressure of 85-90 to be initiated roughly ten
days from the time of her stroke ( presented on 8/17/98 ). As noted
by the work up , the patient had no evidence of an embolic source
for her stroke and her carotid studies were unremarkable.
2. RHEUMATOLOGIC: As noted , the patient has a long history of
diffuse arthritic complaints. She had her sed rate and C-reactive
protein checked. Rheumatology was consulted who felt that her
stroke was not consistent with a vascular process. They did
recommend checking a urinalysis to check for red blood cells and
casts. Her urinalysis showed no protein , no blood , 0-2 red blood
cells , no casts. Only other recommendation was to continue aspirin
and consider higher doses to alleviate left shoulder pain. In
addition , recommended avoiding nonsteroidals while the patient was
on aspirin.
3. ENDOCRINE: The patient has a history of diabetes mellitus and
had not taken her insulin for several days prior to admission. The
patient was placed on her regular insulin schedule as well as a
sliding scale. The patient's blood sugar has ranged from the 150
to the high 200s. As the patient's diet returns to baseline , she
may require adjustments of her NPH and regular insulin doses. In
addition , the patient's Premarin was held during this admission and
further therapy should be decided by the patient's follow up
neurologist.
4. FLUIDS , ELECTROLYTES AND NUTRITION: The patient initially
appeared somewhat dehydrated on admission and was therefore
rehydrated with IV fluids. She had good resolution and returned to
baseline of her BUN and creatinine. She was eating well at the
time of discharge. Close observation was paid to her electrolytes
including her potassium. Her electrolytes should be periodically
monitored at least once a week at rehabilitation. She does have a
history of hyperkalemia and should be watched carefully for this.
5. SOCIAL WORK: The patient initially made a comment to the
Medical Team that she had been abused by her husband. The social
worker was consulted and asked to see her regarding this issue of
spouse abuse. It is true that her husband had hit her in the
forehead with a baseball bat in the past. He died several years
ago and no further abuse history could be elicited since his death.
She currently has two supportive children.
The patient was considered stable and ready for discharge to a
rehabilitation facility. When the date of her transfer is made
available , her discharge medications will be dictated along with
follow up.
Dictated By: MA YEAGLEY , M.D. DW15
Attending: CLEVELAND BENNINGFIELD , M.D. UG4  OB199/1000
Batch: 9080 Index No. MVHDR375B D: 10/5/98
T: 1/19/98