323306313 | PUO | 79972291 | | 7372997 | 8/17/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/15/2003 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: PANNICULITIS.
ASSOCIATED DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. ACUTE RENAL FAILURE.
2. DEPRESSION/PERSONALITY
DISORDER.
3. DIABETES.
4. PROTEIN CALORIE MALNUTRITION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 36-year-old woman with a
history of morbid obesity and diabetes
mellitus with recently diagnosed abdominal wall cellulitis status
post a three week stay at Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital . The patient left
AMA from Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital the day of current admission and
after spending several hours at home called the ambulance after she
slipped and fell out of her chair and was unable to get up. She
denies loss of consciousness , she was found on the floor lying on
her back. She denies fever or chills. She does have abdominal
pain , denies nausea or vomiting , diarrhea , increased urinary
frequency or dysuria.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Her past medical history is significant for
obesity and diabetes.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION INCLUDE: Insulin , lisinopril , cephalexin ,
Lipitor , cimetidine , Paxil ,
metformin.
ALLERGIES: The patient has no known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: No tobacco or alcohol use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Temperature of 96.2 , blood
pressure of 121/64 , pulse of
124 , respirations 18 , saturation of 97 percent on room air. In
general , she is obese , tachypneic , and uncooperative. HEENT ,
supple neck , no jaundice , moist oral mucosa. CV , tachycardic
without murmur. Lungs , CTA anteriorly. Abdomen , lower abdominal
wall with extensive areas of erythema and induration with an open
wound 5 x 7 cm , no pus or drainage , tender to palpation.
Extremities , bilateral swelling , warmth , and erythema with
tenderness. Neurologic , uncooperative for exam , grossly nonfocal.
LABORATORY DATA: laboratories on admission are significant for a
white count of 10.57 , hematocrit of 32.7 ,
platelets of 437. Chem-7 showed a sodium of 135 , potassium of 4.3 ,
chloride of 108 , CO2 of 15 , BUN of 6 , creatinine of 1.2 , glucose of
92 , calcium is 7.5. ESR 75 , INR 1.5 , PT 17.3 , PTT 36.1. UA showed
3 to 5 white blood cells , 2 to 3 red blood cells , positive
leukocyte esterase , positive nitrates. EKG showed sinus
tachycardia with a Q-wave in aVF and questionable Q in V4 through
V5 , left axis deviation , a flat T-wave in V2 through V6 , inverted
T-wave in 3 , all unchanged from previous. Chest x-ray showed no
infiltrates. An abdominal CT done at KAAH on 1/10 showed stranding
and fluid and gas along the anterior aspect of the abdominal wall
without evidence of abscess. An echo done at KAAH showed normal
left ventricular function without valvular disease , with an EF of
64 percent. A surgical pathology report at KAAH showed cellulitis
with ulceration and fat necrosis. Blood cultures at KAAH were never
positive. Lower extremity Doppler on admission negative for clots
above the knee. CT done at KAAH was negative for PE.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: ID: The patient was assessed by
general surgery in the emergency room
and plastic surgery followed the patient while in-house. It was
thought that the patient did not require any further surgical
debridement , she is status post two surgical debridements at KAAH .
It was recommended that she undergo wet-to-dry dressing changes.
Originally upon admission to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of she was given nafcillin ,
however , after coming up to the floor she was changed to a regimen
of vancomycin , Cefotan and Flagyl as per ID recommendation at KAAH ,
this is the regimen the patient was receiving at KAAH . Her blood
cultures , of note , were never positive. It was recommended by the
ID service that the patient does need an abdominal CT to rule out
an abscess given the stranding seen on prior CT at KAAH , however ,
the patient was too large for the CT table at the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of , as well
as for an MRI table , it will have to be assessed as to whether the
patient may be transferred to another facility for abdominal
imaging to rule out abscess , until that time wet-to-dry dressings
will continue to the wound and antibiotics will be continued IV.
Endocrine: The patient was given a regimen of NPH 14 units b.i.d.
and an insulin sliding scale with excellent control of blood sugar.
FEN: The patient has severe protein calorie malnutrition , and a
nutrition consult was obtained and extensive conversations were
carried out concerning whether or not to institute TPN or tube
feeds in this patient. The patient originally refused tube feeds
and it was explained to her the risks and benefits of TPN , and a
PICC was placed to institute TPN. However , on 6/6 the patient
attempted to leave AMA and was declared incompetent to make medical
decisions , so while TPN was instituted to help support the patient
nutritionally , at some point a feeding tube including a permanent
PEG will have to be reconsidered , as this is the best way to feed
the patient. Her admission albumin was 1.5 , indicative of severe
protein calorie malnutrition , and her severe malnutrition was also
thought to be the contributing , if not causative , factor to the
patient's renal failure.
Renal: The patient's admission creatinine was 1.2 with an increase
to 1.9 overnight , and continued to rise to a level of 3 throughout
her admission. A renal consult was obtained. FENA was less than 1
percent , so renal felt that the patient's acute renal failure was
most likely prerenal secondary to the patient's severe protein
calorie malnutrition at third spacing , so it was thought that the
patient would benefit from transfusions of blood products and/or
albumin to help pull fluid intravascularly. There was some thought
that perhaps her renal failure could have been due AIN from
nafcillin , however , her urine eos were negative. The patient did
have polyuria from yeast but this was thought to be colonization
and not actual infection. The patient did continue to receive IV
fluids throughout this hospitalization , and her electrolytes were
monitored and repleted as necessary.
GI: The patient did have some diarrhea , a C. diff was sent and is
currently negative.
Psychiatry: There were severe behavior problems with the patient
at KAAH resulting in the necessity of maintain an elaborate care
contract with the patient that details each behavior that was
expected of the patient. However , throughout her stay at KAAH ,
though she was thought to have a severely regressed personality
disorder , she was deemed competent to make medical decisions and
thus left AMA from that facility. Upon arrival to I Warho Hospital , she did express suicidal ideations to her niece , so a
psychiatric consult was obtained. However , psychiatry felt like
her suicidal ideation was most likely indicative of a borderline
type personality disorder , so it was not thought that she was
actively suicidal and did not require a one to one sitter.
However , she did continue to have manipulative behavior and severe
medical noncompliance , refusing all care including basic hygienic
care as well as wound dressings , medications , and interviews with
care providers and other medically necessary interventions. The
patient refused multiple evaluations by psychiatry to evaluate for
competence as the patient often did not want to listen when
attempts to explain to her her medical problems and the
consequences concerning medical decisions were attempted. Finally
on October , the patient did try to leave AMA during the night ,
and on the morning of March another psychiatric evaluation was
performed and the patient was declared incompetent by psychiatry ,
and the decision was made to proceed with medically necessary care
despite the patient's unwillingness to comply , and we have begun
the pursuit of her guardianship for this patient. The patient's
sister has agreed to pursue the role as her guardian. Until that
time , the patient will be restrained physically or chemically as
necessary for medically necessary intervention. Psychiatry is
continuing to follow.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS INCLUDE: Flagyl 500 mg IV q.8. , Cefotan 1 g IV
q.24. , vancomycin dose by levels ,
heparin 5000 units subcu t.i.d. , NPH insulin 14 units subcu b.i.d. ,
regular insulin sliding scale , Zofran 8 mg IV q.8h. p.r.n. nausea ,
Paxil 10 mg p.o. q.d. , miconazole powder topically b.i.d. , Nexium
40 mg p.o. q.d. , Serax 15 to 30 mg p.r.n. insomnia , Ambien 5 mg
p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , and total parenteral nutrition.
ENTERED BY: FLORETTA MARK THRONEBURG , M.D. YC34
Attending: MARA RAMONEZ , M.D. IT38
DW204/518036
Batch: 30461 Index No. P7NPWF35E6 D: 10/5/03
T: 10/5/03