111791933 | PUO | 77130544 | | 5237997 | 1/17/2006 12:00:00 AM | PNEUMONIA | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 2/24/2006 Report Status: Unsigned
Discharge Date: 8/9/2006
ATTENDING: SPILLETT , SILVA A.
TEAM: Sville Well
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: The condition responsible for causing this
admission is pneumonia.
LIST OF OTHER PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES: COPD , CAD , diabetes type
2 , hypertension , TIA , TVD , psoriasis.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 70-year-old female
with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , COPD , diabetes type
2 who was admitted with dyspnea and tachycardia on the 10/28/06.
The patient reported a history of cough with productive sputum x3
days and chest pain pleuritic in nature. She denied any nausea ,
vomiting , any bowel or bladder symptoms. She denied headache ,
fatigue , anorexia. Per her family , the patient had a fever to
103 and some confusion while reportedly at home. In the
Emergency Department at Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of , she was tachypneic to the 40s
sating upper 80s on room air and had a fingerstick glucose of 30.
An ABG was consistent with a respiratory acidosis , pH of 7.3 ,
pCO2 of 55 , pO2 of 63 , sating 89% on 2 L. An admission chest
x-ray demonstrated an opacity at the left base. An EKG showed
some left-sided strain unchanged from prior. She received
azithromycin and ceftriaxone in the Emergency Department as well
as vancomycin and was started on BiPAP and transferred to the
MICU. In the MICU , she was treated as a COPD flare with
steroids , antibiotics , and nebulizers , however , the patient began
to tire and developed worsening hypercarbic respiratory failure
so was intubated on the night of the admission and extubated five
days later. Over the course of her MICU admission , she developed
AFib and had a troponin leak. Otherwise , the stay was
unremarkable and she extubated without complication and
transferred to the GMS Services on 4/8/06.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: End-stage renal disease on hemodialysis
Monday , Wednesday and Friday. The renal failure is secondary to
renal artery stenosis. Hemodialysis began in April 2005.
Diabetes type 2 with hemoglobin A1c of 5.8. COPD , no PFTs are
available. Hypertension. Coronary artery disease with history
of remote MI , diastolic dysfunction/CHF. TIA for which she
receives Coumadin. Bilateral fem-pop bypasses , psoriasis and a
perforated appendix.
HOME MEDICATIONS: Glyburide 5 b.i.d. , Lipitor 10 , PhosLo 667
t.i.d. , Zestril 60 nightly , Toprol-XL 200 , Coumadin 4 mg , aspirin
81 , iron t.i.d. , Paxil 10 , Nephrocaps daily , Flovent and
Combivent doses unknown.
TRANSFER MEDICATIONS TO THE GMS SERVICE: Diltiazem 90 p.o.
q.i.d. , Lopressor 37.5 q.i.d. , aspirin , albuterol , PhosLo ,
Colace , Pepcid , insulin NPH 15 units b.i.d. , Nicotine patch ,
nystatin , prednisone taper , betamethasone , captopril 50 t.i.d. ,
Coumadin 2 , simvastatin 20 , an Aspart sliding scale and p.r.n.
lactulose , Zyprexa and Ativan.
ALLERGIES: She has no known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is an active smoker , smokes about a pack and
a half a day for the past 55 years. Lives with her daughter , has
9 children.
PHYSICAL EXAM UPON TRANSFER TO THE GMS SERVICE: Weight 92.9 ,
temperature is 96.2 , heart rate 118 AFib , BP 107/57 , sating 95%
on 2 L. In general , she appeared younger than stated age. She
had a psoriatic rash on her right thigh. Neuro exam , she was
hard of hearing , otherwise her cranial nerves were intact and she
was alert and oriented x3. Head and neck exam notable for JVP of
5 cm of water. Mucous membranes were moist. Her oropharynx was
clear. Her extraocular motions were full. Her cardiac exam , she
had a regular rhythm without appreciable murmurs , rubs or
gallops , no heaves. Lungs , she had expiratory wheezing without
rhonchi or crackles. Abdomen , although distended but soft , no
laparotomy scar , normoactive bowel sounds without guarding. She
had a Port-A-Cath in her right chest that appeared clean , dry and
intact. Extremities , she had TEDs and SCDs , bilateral pedal
edema , they were warm.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. From a Pulmonary Standpoint: Pneumonia/COPD flare. The patient was
admitted with pneumonia and COPD flare for which she needed to be intubated and
had a short MICU stay. She did well on antibiotics and was
changed from ceftriaxone , azithromycin , and vancomycin to
levofloxacin which she completed a ten-day course. She also
started on steroid taper and will leave with 20 mg of prednisone
for two more days and then 10 mg of prednisone for three days.
Upon transfer to the floor , she was restarted on Combivent and
Flovent and received p.r.n. albuterol nebulizers and albuterol
inhaler on a q.4 basis. Smoking cessation was emphasized with
the patient. Ace consult was called and the nicotine patch was
continued. She was given a flu vaccine while in the hospital.
The blood cultures and sputum cultures were unrevealing and her
O2 saturation was titrated to greater than 93%.
2. From an endocrine perspective she had a history of diabetes
type 2. She was fleetingly placed on Portland protocol while in
MICU and then transferred to NPH 15 b.i.d. insulin and NovoLog
sliding scale. She should continue her aspirin and ACE inhibitor
as an outpatient and later her hemoglobin A1c was consistent with
very well controlled diabetic.
3. From a cardiovascular standpoint:
A. Ischemia. Her troponin peaked to 0.38 on 11/22/06 while in
the MICU. It was not associated with any dynamic EKG changes ,
however , her EKG does show some evidence of strain versus
infralateral ischemia with T-waves inversions in the inferior and
lateral leads. Her troponin trended down over the course of the
admission and on last check were less than 0.2. There was a
question of whether this leak was due to volume overload versus
infection. Her aspirin , statin , beta-blocker , and ACE were
continued. Her fasting lipid profile was remarkable only for
hypertriglyceridemia and HDL of 38. She is scheduled for a
outpatient nuclear medicine stress test on 8/13/06 at 09:00 a.m.
B. Rate. She was noted to be in AFib on the MICU and rate was
controlled with diltiazem and Lopressor titrated to heart rate of
80 , she was monitored on tele over the course of admission. She
was already in Coumadin for TIAs , however , the new INR goal for
her is between 2 and 3 and Coumadin levels should be checked at
the time of dialysis.
C. Pump. Her EF was 55% on echo that was done while in the
MICU. There is some evidence of aortic sclerosis , otherwise ,
there is no hypokinesis or wall motion abnormalities noted.
4. From a hematologic standpoint , she was started on epopoietin
for anemia of chronic disease. Her baseline hematocrit of 35
dropped to 26 while in the MICU and she received a unit of blood
for that. Following that transfusion , her hematocrit was stable
in the lower to mid 30s. She was also restarted on iron , which
she takes as an outpatient. Her stool is guaiac negative over
the course of the admission.
5. From a GI perspective , the patient had a mild transaminitis
noted while in the MICU thought likely secondary to hepatic
congestion. Viral serologies were drawn including hep B and C ,
which were negative. Her transaminitis resolved on its own.
6. From a dermatologic perspective , the patient has a history of
psoriasis. She was continued on topical steroids with good
effect.
7. From an infectious disease standpoint , this patient has
evidence of pneumonia by clinical exam and chest x-ray on
admisison , which appeared to be resolved. She completed a
ten-day course of levofloxacin. In addition , multiple cultures
were taken while in the MICU including that from the A line which
grew out coag-negative staph thought likely to be a contaminate.
8. Neuro exam , she was alert and oriented and intact upon
transfer to the medical service. For history of TIAs her
Coumadin was continued.
9. FEN. The patient was started on a renal diabetic low-fat
diet and was fluid restricted to 2 L a day.
10. Renal. The patient is on dialysis Monday , Wednesday , and
Friday for end-stage renal disease secondary to RAS. She is
followed by renal and had a renal attending during the course of
this hospitalization. She was started on Neutra-Phos ,
Nephrocaps , and her PhosLo was continued. Her calcium and
phosphorus were monitored q.a.m. and her IPTH was checked and was
415.
11. Prophylaxis. Heparin was continued subcu until her INR was
therapeutic. She still is on VRE precautions for a positive
rectal swab.
She was a full code.
Discharge medications will be included as an addendum.
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN: Dr. Skobiak at PMH
eScription document: 2-2637430 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: PFAFF , TENESHA
Attending: SPILLETT , SILVA
Dictation ID 4212733
D: 5/18/06
T: 5/18/06