680341752 | PUO | 67038128 | | 5160093 | 8/9/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/12/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: GUMINA , MARJORY SHELA MD
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Elective right total knee replacement.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 70-year-old woman
with multiple medical problems including asthma , interstitial
lung disease and autoimmune hepatitis leading to cirrhosis with
varices , hypersplenism and thrombocytopenia. Prior to admission
she lived with her husband and was independent with activities of
daily living. She was limited by right knee pain. She was
admitted to Pagham University Of 9/2/05 for elective
right total knee replacement.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Migraine headaches , interstitial lung
disease , asthma , reflux , hepatitis A , autoimmune hepatitis
leading to cirrhosis with varices , hypersplenism , and
thrombocytopenia , coagulopathy , chronic diarrhea x10 years ,
status post cholecystectomy , osteoporosis , L4 compression
fracture , osteoarthritis.
HOME MEDICATIONS:
1. Valium.
2. Advair.
3. Combivent.
4. Prednisone
5. Nexium.
6. Propranolol.
7. Lasix.
8. Spironolactone.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient does not smoke cigarettes or drink
alcohol. She is married with four children.
ADMISSION LABS: Potassium 4.3 , white blood cell count 9.9 ,
hematocrit 26.3 , platelets 61 , INR 1.3.
ADMISSION EXAM: First documented by the orthopedic team: Alert
and oriented , afebrile. Pulse in the 70s and sinus. Blood
pressure in the 90s/50s. Satting 100% on 2 liters. Thin ,
elderly woman , faint bibasilar crackles. Regular rate and
rhythm. Abdomen: Soft and nontender. Extremities: Warm.
ADMISSION IMAGING: Portable chest x-ray on 10/11/05 with patchy
opacity in the left lung base , likely atelectasis.
ADMISSION EKG: Normal sinus rhythm , normal axis. QTC 464. LVH ,
T-wave inversion in 3 , T-wave flattening in AVF , T-wave
flattening in V3 through V6.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Ortho: Right knee replacement. The patient underwent an
uncomplicated right knee replacement on admission. Subsequently
her leg was immobilized as per orthopedic recommendations. The
reason for immobilization was that movement of the right lower
extremity might precipitate skin tears.
2. Skin: The patient incurred a laceration in her left calf
perioperatively. She also incurred a skin tear on 11/29/05 with
turning in the bed. Her skin was noted to be paper thin with
underlying fluid. Wound healing was impaired secondary to low
albumin and chronic steroid use. The patient was seen by the
Plastic Surgery team. This team recommended appropriate
dressings for the patient's skin tears. The team also grafted
the left thigh skin tear. The patient was treated with
supplemental vitamins to promote wound healing including vitamin
A and zinc. She was also treated with antibiotics to prevent
skin infections. Originally she had been on vancomycin for a
urinary tract infection and when the course was complete for the
urinary tract infection , the patient was switched to Keflex for
prophylaxis versus skin infections.
3. GI: End stage liver disease with varices and
thrombocytopenia. The patient's complete metabolic panel and
coags were checked each day. During the course of her
hospitalization , the patient's transaminases were relatively
stable , but her alkaline phosphatase trended upward. On exam ,
the patient had mild right upper quadrant tenderness which she
reported was chronic. On 5/13/05 , the patient underwent an
abdominal ultrasound to evaluate her right upper quadrant
tenderness and elevated alk/phos. This study revealed a 2.0 x
1.6 x 1.6 cm hyperechoic mass in the portahepatis. This study
also showed evidence of cirrhosis as well as common bile duct
dilation and splenomegaly. A CT scan to further evaluate the
portahepatic mass was recommended. For her autoimmune hepatitis ,
the patient was continued on prednisone. For her varices , she
was continued on propranolol. Her Lasix and spironolactone were
held through much of her hospitalization. On 6/19/05 , her Lasix
was restarted in an attempt to remedy her hyponatremia.
4. Low albumin state: The patient has a low prealbumin
suggestive of decreased PO intake versus decreased synthetic
function of the liver. The patient also has chronic diarrhea and
was thought to be wasting protein. The patient refused ??___??
placement for tube feeds. She was initially on a house diet with
Ensure and Boost supplements as well as MVI and lactinex
granules. The patient was not taking in adequate calories. On
6/19/05 , TPN was initiated.
5. Persistent chronic diarrhea: The patient has a history of
chronic diarrhea. Stool studies including C. diff testing was
negative. The patient was also tested for celiac sprue and this
testing , too , came back negative. The patient was treated
symptomatically with Imodium.
6. GERD: This patient was treated with Nexium and p.r.n.
Maalox.
7. Dysphagia: The patient reported trouble swallowing. She was
evaluated by the Speech and Swallow team on 4/6/05. Her
swallowing function was noted to be intact.
8. Infectious Disease:
Postoperative prophylaxis: Immediately postoperatively , the
patient was initially treated with clindamycin for prophylaxis
versus perioperative infection.
Skin Prophylaxis: The patient was initially treated with
vancomycin and switched to Keflex.
Urinary tract infection: The patient had a series of dirty UA's.
She was ultimately treated with vancomycin for a urine culture
that grew out resistant staph species. She finished her course
of vancomycin on 8/7/05. A repeat UA was noted to be positive
for infection. A repeat urine culture is pending.
Odynophagia: The patient reported trouble swallowing. She was
treated empirically with fluconazole and clotrimazole for
esophageal Candida. This treatment did not remedy her pain in
swallowing. The patient then developed mouth sores. HSV swabs
of these sores are pending. The patient was treated
symptomatically with viscous lidocaine.
9. Pulmonary: The patient has a history of interstitial lung
disease and asthma. She was treated with Combivent and standing
nebulizer treatments. On 8/6/05 , the patient was noted to have
a new oxygen requirement of 3 to 4 liters. Differential
diagnosis was PE versus pneumonia versus volume overload. On
8/6/05 , the patient had a chest x-ray which showed left lower
lobe atelectasis. A repeat chest x-ray on 10/17/05 was read as
normal. On 7/15/05 , the patient was weaned down to room air.
10. Neuro:
Pain: The patient was treated with standing codeine sulfate.
Nausea: The patient was treated with p.r.n. Compazine.
11. Cardiovascular:
Pump: The patient has no known heart failure. In terms of her
volume status , she was deemed to be intravascularly depleted as
evidenced by prerenal urine electrolytes. She was thought ,
however , to be total body volume overloaded. It was thought that
in the setting of her low albumin , she was third-spacing fluid.
The patient was intermittently treated with normal saline and
spa. On 6/19/05 , normal saline was held and the patient was
treated with spa in conjunction with Lasix.
Rhythm: The patient had normal sinus rhythm. She was monitored
on telemetry.
Ischemia: The patient has no known history of coronary artery
disease. She had no chest pain. Her cardiac markers were
negative. Her EKG had nonspecific abnormalities. She was
continued on her beta-blocker. She was not on an aspirin given
her thrombocytopenia.
12. Renal: Decreased urine output. From the day of admission
onward , the patient had relative oliguria , 500 to 900 cc of urine
per day approximately. Her creatinine trended downward from a
value of 0.5 on admission down to as low as 0.2. As noted above ,
the patient was intermittently treated with normal saline and spa
versus spa and Lasix.
13. Hyponatremia: The patient developed asymptomatic
hyponatremia. This hyponatremia was not responsive to fluid
restriction. On 6/19/05 , the patient was treated with Lasix and
spa as noted above. TSH , cortisol and uric acid were checked to
rule out other etiologies of hyponatremia. The results of these
studies are pending.
14. Endocrine: The patient has steroid induced diabetes. She was
treated with Lantus and sliding scale insulin.
15. Heme: Anemia: The patient had normal iron studies , B12 and
folate.
16. Thrombocytopenia: The patient's thrombocytopenia is most
likely secondary to splenic sequestration. An antiplatelet
factor 4 test was sent and is pending.
17. Anticoagulation: The patient had two indications for
anticoagulation. The first was right total knee replacement.
The second was a right lower extremity superficial femoral DVT
discovered on 10/16/05. The goal INR for this patient was
determined to be 1.5 to 2. It was thought that the patient was
at bleeding risk with a higher INR given her known varices and
her thrombocytopenia. From 8/21/05 onward , the patient's INR was
supertherapeutic and her Coumadin was held. It was thought that
the supertherapeutic INR could relate to Coumadin effects versus
nutritional deficiencies versus worsening of her function.
18. Musculoskeletal: Osteoporosis: The patient was treated with
cholecalciferol.
19. Physical therapy: The patient was followed by the Physical
Therapy team.
20. Access: The patient had a PIC line in place.
Discharge medications , the remainder of the hospital course and
disposition will be dictated by Dr. Desirae Marcott
eScription document: 3-1130130 YYO
ENTERED BY: TROOP , WILFREDO
Attending: GUMINA , MARJORY SHELA
Dictation ID 4102436
D: 4/10/05
T: 4/10/05