472205463 | PUO | 29439805 | | 7503465 | 11/25/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/6/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: BLANCHETT , MILLY BRITTANI MD
Admitted 10/18/05 to Dr. Denisha Mcrorie
ADMISSION CHIEF COMPLAINT: Poor p.o. intake and failure to
thrive.
HPI: This 77-year-old female first noted dysphagia beginning in
approximately October 2005. Since then it has persisted and
worsened , and she was seen by a primary care physician. Initial
endoscopy was performed , which was suspicious for malignancy ,
however , the patient was on Coumadin and no biopsy was obtained
at that time. She underwent a repeat upper endoscopy on August ,
2005 at the Ronyscutford Community Hospital The EGD revealed that Ms. Hanners
had Barrett's esophagus as well as a nodule on the distal
esophagus. No evidence of gastritis. A biopsy of the nodule
revealed poorly differentiated invasive adenocarcinoma at 35 cm.
It appeared to be rising in association with Barrett's
esophagitis. She also has a history of ischemic myopathy with an
LVEF of approximately 20% and CAD with a history of bypass graft
in 1992 and a biventricular ICD placed in October 2004. She
underwent an endoscopy on September , 2005 , an EUS revealed that she
had an intramural lesion in the distal esophagus measuring 2 cm
in diameter invading into the muscularis propria , therefore she
was staged and having T3 , N0 , MX , and tumor by EUS. She was seen
at Balltetreatnalbre Medical Center in mid July by both Dr. Jackson Part
from Medial Oncology and Dr. Steinert from Radiation Oncology. It was
felt that she was a reasonable candidate for consideration of
chemoradiation. She therefore began her chemoradiation and
radiotherapy , chemotherapy including Taxol and cisplatin.
Approximately 1 week prior to admission on February , 2005 ,
unfortunately , she reports over the course of the past week , she
has had increasing dysphagia to the point where she is having
trouble swallowing liquids. She presented for her routine
radiation therapy the day prior to admission , with complaints of
severe lightheadedness and difficulty getting off the radiation
table. She was taken to the ED , where she was found to be
dehydrated and weak. She had some chills , but no fever , no
hemoptysis or diarrhea. She has had very poor p.o. intake and
she notes some weight loss.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. CAD , status post CABG , 5 vessel in 1995.
2. CHF with a biventricular pacer placed , EF of 20%.
3. Hypertension.
4. Hyperlipidemia.
5. Diverticulosis.
6. Status post appendectomy.
7. Status post gallbladder removal.
8. A-fib on Coumadin.
9. Esophageal cancer status post chemo on XRT.
10. Hypothyroidism.
11. Peptic ulcer disease.
ALLERGIES: Codeine causes GI upset , morphine and Demerol caused
GI upset , amoxicillin/clavulanic acid caused GI upset , azelastine
causes stinging , and amiodarone causes cold sweats.
MEDICATIONS: Her medications on admission were Lopressor 50
b.i.d. , Diovan 80 , digoxin 0.125 mg five days a week , Synthroid
0.125 mg , Imdur 30 daily , Lasix 80 daily , Prevacid 30 daily ,
multivitamin , Coumadin 3 mg nightly , and Zocor 5 every other day.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married and lives with her
husband. She is a homemaker. She does not smoke. She does not
drink except for occasionally.
FAMILY HISTORY: She has a father with melanoma , and a mother
with an MI at the age of 59.
REVIEW OF SYSTEM: She had no abdominal pain , no chest pain , no
shortness of breath , no headache , and no joint pain.
PHYSICAL EXAM: On admission ,
VITAL SIGNS: Her temp was 97.4 , pulse 86 , blood pressure 87/56 ,
respiratory rate 20 , saturating 98% on room air.
GENERAL: She was an alert , oriented , cooperative female , who was
resting comfortably.
HEENT: Her mucous membranes were dry , oropharynx clear. Pupils
were equal , round and reactive to right. Extraocular motions
intact.
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally , no crackles or
wheezes.
NECK: There is JVP at 7 cm , low lymphadenopathy. Her neck was
supple.
CARDIOVASCULAR: She was irregularly regular with a 2/6 systolic
ejection murmur loudest at the apex.
ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender , nondistended , with positive bowel
sounds. Her extremities had trace edema with no bruising.
LABORATORY DATA: Her admission labs were notable for potassium
of 2.9 , BUN of 37 and creatinine of 1.6. Her LFTs and CBC were
within normal limits. Her INR on admission was 2.7. Her albumin
was 3.7 , mag 1.5. Her UA was negative. Her EKG showed a right
bundle branch block with A-fib , A-flutter with occasional paced
beats from her pacer. Her chest x-ray was clear.
ASSESSMENT: This 77-year-old female with a history of CAD , CHF
and esophageal cancer presenting with lightheadedness , however ,
having nausea and vomiting , most likely her symptoms are due to
dehydration. Unlikely a cardiac cause given no chest pain , no
palpitation , and obviously decreased p.o.
PLAN:
1. Lightheadedness: Poor p.o. intake and dehydration.
Nutrition was consulted to evaluate regarding the possible stent
in esophagus. She will be treated with gentle hydration
overnight , measure orthostatics , holding Lasix.
2. Cardiovascular: History of CHF with an EF of 20% , checking
BNP and monitor on tele for arrhythmia , continue digoxin , Diovan ,
Lopressor , continue Imdur , continue Lasix while hydrating.
3. Esophageal Cancer: Got XRT. On the day of admission , she
will continue XRT.
4. Nausea: Rx for Zofran and replete potassium.
5. Hypothyroidism: Continue Synthroid.
6. GERD: Continue Prevacid.
7. A-fib: Continue Coumadin.
8. Hyperlipidemia: Continue Zocor.
9. FEN: Replete electrolytes p.r.n. , diabetic diet , and
multivitamin.
10. Prophylaxis: Subcutaneous heparin and Prevacid.
11. Full code.
BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Lightheadedness: It was felt that all of her lightheadedness
was most likely due to dehydration. Her lightheadedness improved
with hydration , it was most likely due to poor p.o. intake.
Nutrition evaluated her and suggested high calorie supplements ,
however , she continued to be nauseated and unable to take good
p.o. GI was consulted regarding possible stenting of her
esophagus given that she had an intra-esophageal lesion that
could potentially be causing this nausea. She was also ordered
for a barium swallow. On the barium swallow , there was a strict
stenotic lesion of the esophagus , which is not allowed any food
to pass through. An EGD was performed , which showed some food
about a tight stenosis that was unable to be passed. Based upon
this it was felt that she would benefit from a G-tube.
Interventional radiology was consulted and placed a G-tube
without complication. Tube feeds were begun and she tolerated
them well without complication. She has been continued on tube
feeds and is currently at goal of 360 cc four times a day , with a
scoop of promod , these will be continued upon discharge.
2. TIA/CVA: On the evening of 5/24/05 , it was noted that she
had decreased ability to move the left side of her body. Based
upon this , a STAT CT and CTA was performed. The CT showed no
bleeding , and during the CT scan , she regained all function in
the left side , however , the CTA did note a large friable clot
within her right ICA. Based upon her high level of heart disease
and high risk for an operative procedure , it was not felt that
she would be a stent candidate at that time. She was continued
on Lovenox therapy with Coumadin with the plan to discharge her
on medical management for this TIA. However , on the morning of
8/16/05 , she was noted to have a new left-sided facial droop.
She also had some left-sided weakness. A STAT CT , CTA once again
showed no bleed. At this point , the clot was noted to have moved
from the right ICA into the MCA , and to have dissolved somewhat.
Based upon this , it felt that she would have good recovery from
her stroke , and she was not a candidate for any sort of
intervention at that time. She was converted over to heparin
drip with the plan to give her a heparin drip as bridging over
while her Coumadin became therapeutic. She was continued on
heparin drip until her INR was therapeutic. She will be
discharged on Coumadin and continued on Coumadin and aspirin
therapy for life.
3. Esophageal Cancer: She was continued on XRT for the entire
time when she was in the hospital. Conversations between Dr.
Levandoski , Dr. Steinert and the family were had and it was felt that she
was no longer a chemotherapy candidate given her poor status , in
terms of her other issues. She will be continued on XRT after
discharge from the hospital.
4. Acute Renal Failure: On admission , she was noted to have an
increased creatinine; it was felt to be most likely due to
dehydration. However , at the time of admission , she had a BUN of
50% and a renal ultrasound was performed , the renal ultrasound
was normal and showed no further defect over the course of her
hospital stay. Her creatinine continued trending down and was
0.9 on the day prior to discharge.
5. CAD: She has a history of CHF with an EF of 50%. She was
monitored on tele for arrhythmia and no arrhythmia was observed.
She does of note have a right bundle branch block at baseline as
well as biventricular pacer with 1 lead out of place causing a
wide complex rhythm. There were multiple alarms for VT , which
were simply her baseline rhythm. In the hospital , she was
continued on digoxin , Lopressor , and Imdur. Her Lasix was
initially held , while she was being hydrated , however , it was
restarted after the G-tube was placed and she was getting
sufficient feeds. She was also continued on her statin. She had
no other cardiac issues while she was in the hospital.
6. Nausea: She was treated with Zofran for her nausea when she
was admitted and she continued to have good response to this.
7. Urinary Tract Infection: On the 25 of May she noted that she was
having increasing pain on urination and increasing burning , an UA
was done and it was found to be positive for infection. A
culture was performed , which showed enterobacter that was
levo-sensitive. She was started on Levaquin and the Foley , which
had been placed prior was discontinued. She was continued on
Levaquin for a 10-day course and this will be continued for
several days after discharge.
8. Hypothyroidism: She was continued on her Synthroid at her
home dosages while she was in-house.
9. GERD: She was continued on Prevacid while she was in-house.
10. A-fib: She was continued on Coumadin , although it was held
prior to her EGD and G-tube placement. During the time when she
was not therapeutic on her Coumadin she was treated with either
Lovenox subcu. or heparin IV drip titrated to a PTT of 60 to 80 ,
therefore she was always therapeutic on her anticoagulin during
this hospital stay.
11. She was initially on a full diet , however , she was unable to
take any p.o. so she was started on tube feeds , which she was
able to make her goal. Nutrition was involved in her care and
she was continued on multivitamin.
12. She was on Lovenox or heparin drip throughout her
hospitalization for DVT prophylaxis. She was also continued on
Prevacid.
CODE STATUS: Full Code , and remained full code throughout her
hospitalization.
COMMUNICATION: There was much communication between her family
throughout this hospitalization in terms of their wishes for her
care and for her discharge , and it was agreed that a rehab would
be a good place for to go at the end of her stay here.
eScription document: 1-0166807 HFFocus transcriptionists
Dictated By: SCOVEL , DULCIE
Attending: BLANCHETT , MILLY BRITTANI
Dictation ID 0014426
D: 11/7/05
T: 11/7/05