254205130 | PUO | 39410221 | | 9583133 | 3/26/2005 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/3/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 11/13/2005
ATTENDING: TONI , CARMELITA M.D.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES:
Coronary artery disease and aortic stenosis.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
A 78-year-old gentleman with a history of hypertension ,
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia who
has had two prior MIs with a history of peripheral vascular
disease , coronary artery disease , hypertension , and diabetes who
presented to an outside hospital on 9/4/05 with shortness of
breath , cough , minimal chest pain , left-sided arm uneasiness ,
nausea , and a single episode of vomiting. His symptoms were
relieved with sublingual nitroglycerin and Lasix. Cardiac
enzymes were noted to be mildly elevated. An echocardiogram was
obtained which estimated his ejection fraction at 20%-25% and
noted aortic stenosis , mitral regurgitation , and a left-to-right
shunt. The patient underwent cardiac catheterization on
4/10/05 , which revealed triple vessel disease. He is
transferred to Pagham University Of on 4/10/05 for
surgical evaluation.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Coronary artery disease status post MI x2 , hypertension ,
peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus on oral agent ,
hypercholesterolemia , COPD on bronchodilators , ischemic
cardiomyopathy , and peptic ulcer disease , and GERD.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Includes a left carotid endarterectomy done in 1997 and TURP.
FAMILY HISTORY:
Positive for coronary artery disease.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
Positive for smoking.
ALLERGIES:
Aspirin causing gastritis , Keflex causing hives , and Bactrim
causing hives.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Include Toprol 75 mg p.o. daily , fosinopril 20 mg p.o. daily ,
digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily , Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , Lasix 40 mg
p.o. daily , albuterol , ipratropium two puff p.r.n. , atorvastatin
40 mg p.o. daily , Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily , glyburide 5 mg p.o.
q.a.m. , and Avandia 8 mg p.o. daily. The patient is also on
heparin at 500 units an hour on transfer from outside hospital.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
5 feet 5 inches tall , 75 kilos , temperature 98.2 , heart rate 60 ,
blood pressure 110/60 in right arm , 106/54 in left arm. HEENT:
PERRL. Oropharynx benign. The patient has upper dentures the
lower teeth. He has no carotid bruits but his murmur , but his
radiates to his carotids bilaterally. He has a well-healed
incision on his left neck. Chest: Without incisions.
Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm , 3/6 systolic murmur.
Respiratory: Breath sounds are clear bilaterally. Abdomen: No
incisions , soft , no masses. There is mild ecchymosis on the left
side of his abdomen. Extremities: Mild ankle edema bilaterally ,
mild brown discoloration and left lower leg and ankle , bilateral
lower leg varicosities , mild on right , more prominent on the
left , 2+ pedal pulses bilaterally , 2+ radial pulses bilaterally.
Allen's test in the left upper extremity is normal by pulse
oximeter in the right upper extremity is abnormal by pulse
oximeter. Neuro: Alert and oriented , grossly nonfocal exam.
The patient is hard of hearing and uses a hearing aid.
LABORATORY DATA:
Preoperative chemistries include sodium of 138 , potassium of 5 ,
BUN of 24 , creatinine of 1 , and glucose is 176. Glycosylated
hemoglobin is 5.9. White blood cell count is 6.4 , hematocrit 39 ,
INR is 1.1. PTT is 52. Cardiac catheterization data from
4/10/05 performed at outside hospital includes the following:
30% mid left main , 90% mid LAD , 100% proximal circumflex , 100%
proximal RCA , 100% mid RCA and a right dominant circulation.
There is moderate disease at the origin of the diagonal branch.
The circumflex is totally occluded proximally and has there
antegrade collaterals which opacify a large part bifurcating
obtuse marginal branch. RCA is occluded , antegrade collaterals
to acute marginal , distal RCA and PDA collateralized from the
left circulation. LIMA is widely patent. Ventriculogram notes
inferobasal akinesis , apical akinesis , and anterior hypokinesis ,
1-2+ MR. Hemodynamics PCW is 10 and cardiac index is 2.1.
Echocardiogram from 9/4/05 estimates ejection fraction at 20% ,
notes aortic stenosis with a mean gradient of 17 mmHg and a peak
gradient of 32 mmHg , calculated valve area of 1 cm2. There is
trivial aortic insufficiency , moderate mitral insufficiency ,
trivial pulmonic insufficiency , and diffuse hypokinesis most
notably involving the inferoposterior and anteroseptal walls.
There is a dilated left atrium , CVP of 20 , small left-to-right
shunt consistent with ostium secundum ASD. EKG normal sinus
rhythm at 80 , left bundle-branch block with inverted Ts in I ,
aVL , V5 and V6 , sinus arrhythmia with a first-degree block.
Chest x-ray is within normal limits.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was taken to the operating room on 1/1/05 and
underwent aortic valve replacement with a 23 mm
Carpentier-Edwards Magna valve. He also underwent CABG x4 with a
sequential vein graft connecting the aorta to D1 and then OM1.
He also has a graft , LIMA to the LAD and another vein graft
connecting the aorta to the PDA. He also underwent a PFO
closure. He was taken to the Intensive Care Unit following
surgery in stable condition. Postoperatively , the patient was
noted to have a hematocrit of 26 and was noted to be guaiac
negative. He was transferred to the Step-Down Unit on
postoperative day 3.
SUMMARY BY SYSTEM AS FOLLOW:
Neurologically: No issues , pain control. Cardiovascular: The
patient was restarted on beta-blocker and an ACE inhibitor. He
was followed by his Cardiology perioperatively. Respiratory:
Blake drain discontinued on postoperative day 3. Post-pull chest
x-ray was noted to be stable. GI: No issues. Renal: The
patient was maintained on Lasix with a good urine output to
support diuresis. Endocrine: No issues , the patient was
followed by the Diabetes Management Service perioperatively for
hyperglycemia. Hematology: The patient was transfused on
postoperative day 3 for a hematocrit of 25. The patient was also
restarted on Plavix as patient has an aspirin allergy. On
postoperative day 4 , the patient was weaned off oxygen and
saturated well on room air. He also maintained sinus rhythm for
the duration of his hospital stay. The patient began ambulating ,
it was noted that he was unsteady on his feet and walks with
assistance , physical therapy consult was obtained for evaluation
as well as rehabilitation screening. Later that day , the patient
noted visual disturbances which included blurriness and wavy
vision that lasted two and a half hours. A CT angio scan was
done and was found to be negative for acute pathology. Neurology
team was consulted and a stat CT angio of the patient's head was
obtained. This study revealed no high-grade stenoses and it was
recommended that an ophthalmology consult be obtained. The
ophthalmologist examined the patient and also found no indication
of pathology. The patient had no further visual disturbances for
the remainder during his hospital stay. The patient was noted to
have a brief period of rate controlled atrial fibrillation on
postoperative day #6 , he converted back to sinus rhythm on his
increased beta-blocker dose. He remained in sinus rhythm for the
remainder of his postoperative stay and continued to work with
physical therapy and improved daily. The patient waited three
days for an available rehabilitation bed.
DISPOSITION:
He is discharged to rehab in good condition on postoperative day
11.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Discharged on the following medications: Tylenol 650 mg p.o.
q.6h. p.r.n. pain , Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. constipation ,
Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily , potassium slow release 10 mEq p.o. daily ,
glipizide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , ibuprofen 600 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.
pain , lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. daily , Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily ,
Combivent two puffs inhaled b.i.d. , Glucophage-XR 500 mg
following breakfast and Glucophage-XR 500 mg following supper ,
Zetia 10 mg p.o. daily , Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily , atorvastatin
40 mg p.o. daily , and Toprol-XL 100 mg p.o. daily.
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENTS:
The patient is to have follow-up appointments with his
cardiologist , Dr. Donald , in one to two weeks and with his
cardiac surgeon , Dr. Toni , in four to six weeks.
eScription document: 5-9143996 EMS
Dictated By: JACOBSON , CHRISTEEN
Attending: TONI , CARMELITA
Dictation ID 0667478
D: 10/8/05
T: 10/8/05