186894246 | PUO | 57862173 | | 036239 | 7/15/1999 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/21/1999 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/24/1999
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Thirty-seven-year-old gentleman with
a history of angina in the past. In
1995 , a work-up was negative with a negative stress test and
treated medically two months ago regarding exertional angina and
progression of angina on day of admission. He was admitted to the
Whid Downdoc Rehabilitation Of at which time his EKG showed supraventricular
changes in 2 , 3 , and ABF with T-wave inversions in 1 , AVL , and
V4-6. He was cathed at that time which showed 100% LAD and 40%
proximal mid-RCA and a 50% proximal posterior LV branch. The
patient was transferred over to the Pagham University Of
for further management and surgery.
On 11/9 , the patient underwent an echocardiogram which showed an
ejection fraction of 55% with mild inferior to posterior
hypokinesis , trivial mitral regurgitation. He was cathed with an
attempt to angioplasty the LAD but failed and had a stent placed
and noted to have an LAD dissection. Thus , the patient was
referred for surgical intervention with coronary artery bypass
grafting.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for coronary artery disease ,
hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , motor
vehicle accident in 1983 complicated by contusion with slurred
speech and wrist and rib fractures along with multiple facial
lacerations.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: As stated above due to motor vehicle
accident. He had a hematoma of his right
neck which needed to be surgically evacuated.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: Nitroglycerin 1.5 q.6h. , Simvastatin 20 mg p.o.
q.h.s. , Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg
p.o. q.d. On the unit , he was on tirofiban IV.
FAMILY HISTORY: Very significant with father dying of a
myocardial infarction in his 40s , four uncles who
died of a myocardial infarction in their 30s to 40s.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Positive for ETOH with one drink per day.
Stopped smoking a month ago one pack a day x 18
years. He stopped on 7/4 , the day of admission.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Afebrile , sinus rhythm 66 , blood pressure
95/60 on room air at 96%. HEENT:
Nonicteric , fair dentition , no oral lesions. Neck: No evidence of
bruits. Scar on the right neck secondary to motor vehicle
accident. Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm , no evidence of
murmurs , gallops or rubs. Lungs: Clear to auscultation. No
evidence of rales , wheezes , or rhonchi. Abdomen: Positive bowel
sounds , soft , non-tender. No evidence of hepatosplenomegaly.
Extremities: No evidence of edema or varicosities. Scar to the
right knee secondary to laceration. Vascular: 2+ pulses
throughout with a patent Allen on the left hand. Neurological:
Alert and oriented x three. Grossly non-focal.
LABORATORY DATA: Within normal limits. A chest x-ray showed
no acute pulmonary disease. EKG was in normal
sinus rhythm. The patient was referred for coronary artery bypass
grafting.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted on 9/8/99 to the
Coronary Care Unit and was taken down to the
Catheterization Laboratory with attempt to angioplasty his LAD but
failed angioplasty and had a stent placed and noted a dissection of
his LAD. The patient was started on tirofiban , Heparin , and IV TNG
and referred to the cardiac surgeons for coronary artery bypass
grafting. The patient was also seen by the Plastic Surgery Service
for evaluation of a radial harvest for graft conduit. The patient
had positive patent arch by Allens on the left. The patient was
right handed so it was consented for a left radial harvest. The
patient was taken to the Operating Room on 10/6 and underwent a
coronary artery bypass grafting x four with a LIMA to the LAD , a
radial artery to the second diagonal , and a saphenous vein graft
sequential to the patent ductus arteriosus and posterior LV branch.
The patient on examination of his LAD was found to have a
dissection in the mid-portion from the previous PTCA about 2.5 to
3.0 cm. Anastomosis was done with the LIMA and the two layers of
the LAD artery was reattached with suture.
The patient came off the heart lung machine with no difficulty and
was taken to the Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit and was
extubated on post-op day number one doing well from cardiopulmonary
standpoint and transferred to the Step-down Unit on post-op day
number four. The patient remained in normal sinus rhythm and had
an uncomplicated post-op course except for temperature spike on
post-op day number four to 101. He was pan-cultured. A chest
x-ray showed a slight posterior effusion with question of
consolidation. Some consolidation on the lung field. Sputum only
grew out oroflora. Blood cultures were negative with no growth so
far and a urinalysis was negative. His temperature was felt to be
due to his lung atelectasis , ?start of pneumonia and the patient
was started on Levofloxacin p.o. The patient had no further
temperature and remained afebrile for the next 24 hours. The
patient had no evidence of elevation in his white count.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home on post-op day
number five in stable condition.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. once a
day , Diltiazem 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Percocet
1-2 tablets q.4h. p.r.n. pain , Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Levofloxacin 500 mg q.d. for 5 days for presumed
atelectasis/pneumonia , Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d.
DISCHARGE LABS: BUN/creatinine 8/0.9 , sodium 140 , potassium 4.5 ,
and magnesium of 2.2 , hematocrit 29 , white count
5.6 , platelets 304.
FOLLOW-UP: He is to follow-up with his cardiologist in one-two
weeks and to follow-up with Dr. Barrette in four-six weeks
for postsurgical evaluation.
Dictated By: TOMIKA AFZAL , M.D.
Attending: GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D. ZD6
UJ086/3133
Batch: 83173 Index No. O6GNBK1XJU D: 1/21/99
T: 5/29/99
QF9