532603315 | PUO | 00022482 | | 540142 | 1/28/1996 12:00:00 AM | ATRIAL FLUTTER , CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/28/1996 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 5/30/1996
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1. CARDIOMYOPATHY.
2. STATUS POST RIGHT CAROTID ENDARTERECTOMY.
3. HYPERTENSION.
4. DIABETES MELLITUS.
5. PAROXYSMAL ATRIAL TACHYCARDIA.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 73 year old male with a
history of hypertension , diabetes
mellitus , congestive heart failure , who has had multiple previous
admissions to Pagham University Of with exacerbations of
his congestive heart failure , most recently 27 of February The patient
was reasonably well until approximately 4-5 weeks ago when he
initially noticed slight worsening of bilateral ankle swelling.
This has progressively worsened until the date of admission when
swelling had progressed up to his waist. In the last 2-3 weeks , he
also noted slow worsening of his exertional dyspnea. Prior to
this , he was rarely limited by shortness of breath , but does not
exert himself much. Recently , however , exercise tolerance has
decreased to 3 to 50 feet on flat ground. Patient denied shortness
of breath at rest until yesterday evening when he noted slight
dyspnea also associated with a vague chest tightness. Patient
subsequently went to bed , slept on his usual two pillows. He woke
suddenly at 4:00 A.M. the morning of admission with severe
shortness of breath , chest tightness , and a sensation of general
fatigue. He was unable to get back to sleep because of worsened
orthopnea. His daughter called the EMTs who took the patient to
the Totin Hospital And Clinic Emergency Room. His initial EKG showed a
rate of 150 and he was loaded with procainamide after no change
after being treated with IV adenosine. After treatment with O2 ,
his chest tightness resolved. He denied nausea , vomiting ,
lightheadedness or diaphoresis on presentation. He also denied
palpitations during the past few weeks , but has noted episodic
palpitations in the past. He denies any previous episodes of chest
pain or angina. In addition , he denies syncope and presyncope.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Congestive heart failure/ischemic
cardiomyopathy with recent echo of 10/16 with
an ejection fraction of 20% with antero and inferior apical
hypokinesis. 2. Non insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ,
diagnosed in 1988 , treated with oral agents. 3. Hypertension. 4.
Status post varicose vein surgery of the left leg.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 325 mg q.day , digoxin 0.25 mg q.day ,
glyburide 2.5 mg q.day , lisinopril 10 mg q.day , Lasix
40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Patient is a retired ship engineer , immigrated
to the Arv , Kansas 24037 from Verra He lives with
his daughter in Ri Rill Sonelos , originally from Sburb He
smokes 1/2 pack per day x 48 years , stopped when he moved to the
Sasas Beau Ant Alcohol - intermittent binge drinking without
regular heavy consumption.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Heart rate was 120 , blood pressure 90/70 ,
without orthostatic change. HEENT showed
pupils were equal , round , reactive to light. Extracular movements
intact. Oropharynx was clear. Neck showed JVP above the jaw with
a question of A waves. Chest showed decreased breath sounds at the
bases bilaterally with bibasilar crackles. Cardiac exam was
regularly irregular S1 , S2 , + S3 and S4 , 2/6 pansystolic murmur to
the apex. Abdominal exam was soft , nontender , nondistended , with a
palpable liver edge , nonpulsatile. No splenomegaly. Extremities
showed 3+ bilateral pitting edema. Distal pulses were not palpable
bilaterally. Femoral pulses 2+ bilaterally. Neurologic exam was
grossly nonfocal. Chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly with pulmonary
vascular redistribution and perivascular cuffing. EKG showed
atrial flutter with 2:1 block at a rate of 135 with
intraventricular conduction delay with right bundle branch block
pattern , as well as poor R wave progression.
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Cardiovascular. After patient had been
treated with procainamide in the emergency room ,
he became hypotensive and was subsequently cardioverted. His blood
pressure recovered to his baseline of 90 systolic and he was
started on Ace inhibitors. He was also treated with IV Lasix and
started on heparin. Because of his disproportionate right
ventricular failure , he did undergo a VQ scan which was low
probability.
Patient had recurrent episodes of atrial tachycardia and was loaded
orally with amiodarone. In addition , he had some short runs of
nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.
After aggressive diuresis , the patient was noted to have an
increasing BUN/creatinine. He was started on IV dobutamine on
14 of July and was continued on captopril and Isordil. He diuresed well
on dobutamine and was restarted on digoxin. The dobutamine was
weaned to off on 11 of January He was restarted on IV Lasix.
On 25 of August , patient underwent cardiac catheterization which showed a
40% mid LAD lesion , 40% OM , 40% RCA. His pressures showed an RA
pressure of 10 , RV 50/12 , with a mean PA pressure of 34 , a
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 22 , cardiac output 3.0 , with
an index of 1.6 , SVR 1800. It was therefore felt that his
cardiomyopathy which had initially been attributed to ischemic
etiology , was likely idiopathic or secondary to alcohol. The
patient was subsequently transferred to the TGLMC with Swan-Ganz
catheter in place. He was again treated with dobutamine and
Isordil and his captopril was titrated upwards. Repeat echo showed
an ejection fraction of 20% with an unstable LV thrombus. He was
subsequently restarted on heparin , followed by loading with
Coumadin. He was transferred back to the floor on 2 of February and
remained hemodynamically stable on captopril , Isordil , amiodarone ,
digoxin and aspirin. His Lasix intravenous was converted to p.o.
torsemide with good fluid balance.
2. Neurology. The patient was noted to complain of
lightheadedness , vertigo and ringing in his ears after receiving
his doses of captopril. He underwent noninvasive carotids which
showed a subtotal occlusion of his right internal carotid artery.
He underwent combined cardiac catheterization and carotid
angiography on 11 of January Angiography revealed a greater than 90% right
internal carotid stenosis. Following the procedure , he had a
transient 5-10 minute episode of decreased responsiveness and
decreased left hand grip , which resolved completely. On 30 of January ,
he underwent right carotid endarterectomy complicated by a small
right neck hematoma which resolved spontaneously. He had no
further symptoms and was able to tolerate captopril up to 25 mg
t.i.d.
3. Hematology. The patient was anticoagulated with heparin
followed by Coumadin as above , for his LV thrombus , with a target
INR of 2.5 to 3.
4. Non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. Patient's blood
sugars were well controlled on p.o. glyburide.
5. Renal. Patient's creatinine on admission was 1.4. His
creatinine transiently rose to 2.2 with aggressive diuresis , but
fell to 1.4 on discharge.
The patient was discharged home with VNA services on 23 of March He
was stable on discharge. He is to follow up with Dr. Irving Escalante on 10 of February
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Amiodarone 400 mg p.o. q.day , enteric
coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day ,
captopril 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , digoxin 0.625 q.day , Isordil 20 mg
p.o. t.i.d. , multivitamin , quinine 325 mg p.o. q.day , torsemide 60
mg p.o. q.day , Coumadin.
Dictated By: MAX Z. BALLER , M.D. OJ18
Attending: EVERETT IRIAS , M.D. CL95
CS878/6480
Batch: 66364 Index No. N8DA3YVOA D: 10/29/97
T: 2/9/97