129188447 | PUO | 59954123 | | 5963925 | 2/10/2003 12:00:00 AM | UNSTABLE ANGINA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/26/2003 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 9/29/2003
CHIEF COMPLAINT: CHEST PAIN.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Sotos is a 58-year-old female
status post stent to her left
circumflex coronary artery three months prior to admission , with a
history of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hyperlipidemia ,
hypertension , who presents with left jaw pain for the last several
days. She treated this at home with sublingual nitroglycerin with
partial relief of her pain. She presented to the emergency room
and had full resolution of her jaw pain with three sublingual
nitroglycerin. Of note , when the patient presented with a non-ST
elevation MI approximately three months prior , she also had left
jaw pain. Since this pain was the patient's classic anginal pain ,
heparin was started despite the fact that she had negative cardiac
enzymes and no EKG changes.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus ,
hypertension , hyperlipidemia , coronary
artery disease status post left circumflex stent in April 2002.
Anxiety , depression , left arm phlebitis associated with blood draws
after her left circumflex stent was placed. Status post
appendectomy , status post tubal ligation.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: Glucophage , Lipitor , atenolol , aspirin , sublingual
nitroglycerin p.r.n. , Zestril , Celexa , Klonopin ,
Neurontin.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has a daughter who works for Tysvillei Medical Center She does not smoke nor does she drink
alcohol. Her primary language is vietnamese.
FAMILY HISTORY: Positive for coronary artery disease. The
patient's father died of a myocardial infarction
at age 62 and her mother died of a myocardial infarction at age 75.
VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure 100-137/52-67 , pulse 60-62 ,
respiratory rate 18 , oxygen saturation 97-98% on two
liters nasal cannula.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL: Well appearing middle-aged female.
NECK: JVP flat. CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular
rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2. CHEST: Clear to
auscultation bilaterally. ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender , nondistended.
Positive bowel sounds. EXTREMITIES: No lower extremity edema ,
warm. RECTAL: The patient is guaiac negative.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: 1. Cardiovascular. The patient was
taken for cardiac catheterization
after she was admitted. Her cardiac catheterization was on
April , 2003. Prior to her catheterization she was enrolled in
the Ven Medical Center This was a blinded trial with Clah inhibitor. In accordance with the trial , the patient was
started on Lovenox 1 mg per kg subcutaneously b.i.d. Later that
afternoon on April , 2003 , she went for cardiac catheterization.
The cath revealed a right dominant system with no significant left
main lesions , no significant left anterior descending lesions , 70%
diffuse lesion in the left circumflex artery consistent with
instant restenosis of her previously placed PIXEL stent. The right
coronary artery showed a 30% lesion. During this catheterization ,
brachytherapy to the vessel that showed instant restenosis was
attempted , however , it was aborted due to technical malfunction of
the brachytherapy delivery machine. The lesion was , however ,
dilated by balloon angioplasty. After dilatation there was TIMI-3
flow with 10% residual stenosis.
Postcath the patient did well. She was maintained on aspirin ,
Zocor , Lopressor , captopril , Celexa , Klonopin which are her home
medications. The morning after catheterization , the patient had
recurrent chest pain which radiated to her right jaw. The pain was
relieved with sublingual nitroglycerin. The following day , the
patient did well. However , she began to develop a right groin
hematoma in the afternoon on July , 2003. The hematoma was
thought to be rapidly enlarging. Hematocrit checked at that time
revealed a significant drop in blood count to 26. The patient was
transfused two units of packed red blood cells. Her hematoma
continue to expand overnight. The patient was discontinued from
Lovenox at that time. However , she was continued on aspirin and
Plavix. The patient's Lovenox was reversed with protamine.
Over the night , the patient's hematoma continued to expand. She
received , the following morning on March , 2003 , one unit of
fresh frozen plasma as well as a third unit of packed red blood
cells. At that point , her hematoma was marked and it was noted to
be stable from that point on , no longer expanding beyond the bounds
of the marks. Her left arm was noted at that time to also be tense
with hematoma secondary to blood draws. Vascular surgery was
consulted in the morning on March , 2003 , in order to assess the
right groin hematoma as well as the hematoma in the left arm due to
concern for developing compartment syndrome. Vascular surgery saw
the patient and felt that as long as the patient's hematocrit
stabilized , she would not need any surgical intervention. They
could not find any evidence for left upper extremity compartment
syndrome at that time.
Also on the morning of March , 2003 , the patient's platelets
agents including both Plavix and aspirin were discontinued.
Further family history was obtained from the patient that day which
revealed history suspicious for possible bleeding disorder
including the information that the patient's daughter bleeds
heavily with each menstrual period , and that both the patient and
her daughter have very easy bruising with history of several
hematomas secondary to light trauma. The patient also reported
that she had heavy bleeding with childbirth that required extra
hospitalization although it did not require a transfusion.
Hematology was consulted at that point. The patient was thought by
hematology to have these hematomas secondary to over
anticoagulation with Lovenox , Plavix , aspirin and possible BANO AAP HOSPITAL CENTER
trial drug with a Weiss Linddoun Hospital The only familial
coagulation problems that were screened for based on their
recommendations were von Willebrand screen as well as a Factor XIII
screen. The Factor XIII screen eventually turned out normal and
the von Willebrand screen was pending at the time of discharge.
By the morning of August , 2003 , the patient had received a total
of five units of packed red blood cells due to blood loss secondary
to this hematoma. Her hematoma had stabilized at that time. She
was restarted on aspirin on August , 2003. From that point
onward , the patient did quite well and was maintained on aspirin ,
beta-blocker , Zocor and ACE inhibitor.
The remainder of her hospitalization was uncomplicated and after
the patient had a stable hematocrit for several days without any
recurrent jaw pain , she was discharged home on January , 2003.
Neurology. On August , 2003 , the patient developed a headache
which she described as the same as she frequently experiences at
home. Her headaches are usually not responsive to Tylenol or other
analgesics. Given the patient's complications with hematoma and
bleeding , a head CT was obtained that afternoon to rule out
intracerebral hemorrhage. Her head CT was negative for bleeding.
Her headache was treated with Tylenol to which it did not respond
and later with Percocet to which she got some relief.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q day , Klonopin 0.5 mg
t.i.d. , glucophage 500 mg b.i.d. , Celexa
40 mg p.o. q.d. , Zestril 2.5 mg q.d. , atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.
FOLLOW UP: The patient was instructed to follow up with her
primary care physician , Dr. Purkerson
Dictated By: SHANEL PORTNOY , M.D. SE88
Attending: JEANNETTE GORGLIONE , M.D. AF83
GC839/921890
Batch: 11675 Index No. NQZK3F7233 D: 5/5/03
T: 5/5/03