986414438 | PUO | 61460962 | | 8148399 | 10/20/2005 12:00:00 AM | INTRA ABDOMINAL ABSCESS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/8/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 5/29/2005
ATTENDING: MILAGROS MIRIELLO MD
ATTENDING PHYSICIAN:
Verda Triarsi , M.D.
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:
Intraabdominal abscess.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
The patient is a 77-year-old female with history of hypertension
and perforated sigmoid diverticulitis status post a partial
colectomy at the splenic flexure and Hartmann pouch on 2/28/05 ,
who presented at an outside hospital with chills and fevers of
temperature of 103 degrees Fahrenheit , as well as shortness of
breath and hypotension. The patient was transferred to the
Pagham University Of for further care. She denied
nausea , vomiting , and had only mild abdominal pain and abdominal
distension noted per the patient. However , her fevers and chills
continued.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Hypertension , chronic back pain , and nephrolithiasis.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Right total knee replacement , appendectomy , cholecystectomy , and
partial colectomy at the splenic flexure as noted above.
MEDICATIONS:
Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lisinopril 15 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix 40
mg p.o. q.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , albuterol nebulizer
p.r.n. , Zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , MS Contin 15 mg to 30 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , oxycodone as needed , and heparin subcutaneous t.i.d.
ALLERGIES:
No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
The patient presented after a brief stay for one week at A Pa Community Hospital .  She is the aunt of a Pagham University Of cardiologist , Dr. Casebolt .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Temperature is 98.8 , heart rate 94 , blood pressure 80/54 ,
respiratory rate 18 , and oxygen saturation 95% on 2 liters nasal
cannula. In general , the patient was in no acute distress. Her
chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally without any evidence
of wheezes. The heart was regular rate and rhythm with S1 , S2
normal with 3/6 systolic murmur. Abdomen was soft and obese.
Mild tenderness of the inferior aspect of her ostomy stoma. No
rebound tenderness was noted. The stoma color was normal. There
was gas and stool in the stoma bag. Her midline abdominal
incision was open with pink granulation tissue. Extremities were
notable for only trace pitting edema.
LABORATORY DATA:
Chemistry: Sodium 139 , potassium 5.0 , chloride 100 , bicarbonate
34 , BUN 25 , creatinine 0.8 , and glucose 187. Liver enzymes: AST
8 , ALT 13 , alkaline phosphatase 89 , and T-bili 0.2 , and lactic
acid 1.2. CBC: White blood cell count 13.5 , hematocrit 31.3 ,
and platelets 513 , 000. Cardiac enzymes were normal with the CK
of 33 and MB fraction of 1.2. Troponin was less than assay. EKG
showed left anterior fascicular block and sinus rhythm.
IMAGING:
CT of the abdomen showed a 6 cm x 2 cm left-sided intraabdominal
fluid collection and a 4.2 cm fluid collection around the stoma ,
which both were seemed to as consistent with abscess formation.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was admitted to the Nessinee Ker Hospital Medical Center Surgical Service on
1/12/05 for management of her intraabdominal abscesses as a
complication of recently performed partial colectomy and Hartmann
pouch for perforated diverticulitis. She was started on IV
antibiotics with vancomycin , levofloxacin , and Flagyl. By
systems.
Neuro: The patient had intermittent issues with pain control ,
which were managed by putting the patient on oral narcotic agents
as well as fentanyl patch. This seemed to help the patient's
pain. The patient also had an episode of altered mental status ,
which was believed to be due to pulmonary issues of CO2 retention
as noted below. For this reason , the patient had been
transferred to the ICU for 24-hour period observation , and at the
time of discharge , the patient was in adequate mental status
communicating effectively and at her baseline. Otherwise , no
issues at the time of discharge , except for pain control , being
managed by narcotic agents.
Cardiovascular: The patient was stable throughout her
hospitalization. However , it was notable at the time of her
previous admission that the patient would need to undergo an
echocardiogram within one to two weeks. For this reason , the
patient underwent an echocardiogram during her hospitalization
and was found to have normal ejection fraction of 65%. There
were no regional wall motion abnormalities noted. Her aortic
valve showed trace aortic insufficiency and the patient also had
mild degree of aortic stenosis with the valve of 1.4 cm squared.
Her mitral valve was shown to have some degree of mitral
regurgitation and the patient also had some tricuspid
regurgitation as well. Her right ventricle was seemed to be okay
and she did have some evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy.
No evidence of gross cardiac dysfunction.
Pulmonary: The patient on hospital day #6 was found to have
altered mental status in the evening. An ABG was checked , which
showed a pH of 7.42 , pCO2 of 61 , and pO2 of 58 , 92% oxygen
saturation on 3 to 4 liters with the base access of 12. For this
reason , it was determined that the patient would need to be
admitted to the surgical ICU for further monitoring of her
pulmonary status. She was taken to the ICU and admitted there.
During her ICU course , the patient was placed on BiPAP , which
effectively brought her bicarbonate and her pCO2 levels down.
This did effectively decrease her pCO2. Hence by hospital day
#8 , the patient was transferred back to the floor in stable
condition. From her pulmonary standpoint , the patient continued
to have some degree of bibasilar crackles during her
hospitalization. However , given her otherwise stable status , the
patient was encouraged to perform and sent to spirometry and
Lasix was withheld during the later course of her hospital
course. At the time of discharge , the patient was with adequate
oxygen saturation sating 97% on 1 liter at the time of discharge.
GI: The patient had no trouble eating regular diet during her
hospital course. Her ostomy continued to function well with the
stoma pink and healthy. She did have two intraabdominal
abscesses , which were drained on hospital day #2 by
Interventional Radiology. Two IR catheters were placed and these
were left in place until the output was deemed to be minimal , and
a CT scan was performed as well as an abscessogram , both of which
reveled that the fluid collections had resolved. Hence on
hospital day #10 , the patient's interventional radiology drains
were discontinued without complications. At the time of
discharge , the patient was stable with a soft abdomen and no
evidence of infection. The patient did have a midline abdominal
incision open with pink granulation tissue , healing well. The
pain was treated with wet-to-dry normal saline dressing , b.i.d.
to t.i.d.
GU: The patient continued to have good urine output during her
hospital course. She did require Foley placement from adequate
monitoring of her urine output at 1.8. Urinalysis , as well as
urine culture was sent , which revealed yeast greater than 100 , 000
yeast , not Candida albicans. She was started on a five-day
course of fluconazole and her Foley catheter was discontinued for
treatment of this infection. At the time of discharge , the
patient was urinating adequate amounts independently without any
issues.
Heme: The patient's hematocrit remained stable during her
hospital course. However , during her stay in the ICU , hematocrit
was found to be 27 and the patient received 1 unit of packed red
blood cells without any complications or events. At the time of
discharge , the patient's hematocrit was found to be 43 without
any event. She continued to receive subcutaneous heparin t.i.d.
for DVT prophylaxis.
ID: The patient was placed on vancomycin , levofloxacin , and
Flagyl during her hospital course for the intraabdominal
abscesses. Fluconazole was also added for the treatment of a
urinary tract infection with the yeast. The antibiotics were
continued until the drains were removed on hospital day #10. On
hospital day #10 , the patient was transitioned to levofloxacin ,
which is to be continued for a 10-day total course benign
1/27/05 , 10 further days of levofloxacin required for adequate
covered. However , it should be noted that the IR drains were
found to be negative and only revealed purulent fluid. Gram
stain was indicative of sterile purulent fluid. Cultures were
negative.
Tubes , lines , and drains: As noted above , the patient had the
placement of two interventional radiology drains , which were
discontinued prior to discharge. At the time of discharge , the
patient has no Foley and no IR drains in place.
MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE:
Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. pain , albuterol nebulizes 2.5 mg
nebulizer q.4h. p.r.n. wheezing , aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , Pepcid
20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fentanyl patch 25 mcg patch q.72h. , heparin
5000 units subcutaneous t.i.d. , lisinopril 50 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , hold for systolic blood pressure
less than 100 and heart rate less than 55 , multivitamins with
minerals one tablet p.o. q.d. , Zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,
levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. x13 more doses starting 5/15/05 .
DISPOSITION:
The patient is discharged to F.sley General Hospital for further management. The patient was given adequate
instructions for her further care and the same was passed on to
HHH .  The patient is to receive dressing changes ,
physical therapy assistance , and ostomy care. The patient should
follow up with Dr. Miriello in one to two weeks for further
surgical management follow up and should also be seen by Dr.
Verdie Macisaac for her cardiovascular follow up.
eScription document: 1-8710095 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: FUEST , MARTA
Attending: MIRIELLO , MILAGROS
Dictation ID 4403565
D: 5/15/05
T: 5/15/05