010648020 | PUO | 23877852 | | 6560808 | 2/19/2004 12:00:00 AM | ATRIAL TACHYCARDIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/7/2004 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 11/29/2004
ATTENDING: ROSSIE MANKOSKI M.D.
ATTENDING PHYSICIANS:
1. Rossie K. Mankoski , M.D.
2. Santa V. Cathrine Chowanec , MD
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: Clotted AV fistula , atrial fibrillation ,
and change in mental status.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Tylor is a 61-year-old female
with a history of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy status post
cardiac transplant in 1991 complicated by allograft coronary
artery disease , rejection x2 , post transplant MVR and TVR , also
with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , diabetes mellitus ,
hypertension and a subacute change in her mental status over the
last few months that presented with a clot in her right upper
extremity AV fistula. Her last hemodialysis session was two days
prior to admission , and she is usually dialyzed on Mondays ,
Wednesdays and Fridays. Interventional radiology did not perform
a thrombectomy of the right upper extremity fistula clot , as the
patient's systolic blood pressures were in the 90s , and they were
concerned about the patient's change in mental status as she
would need conscious sedation for the procedure. She was also
noted upon admission to have an EKG that displayed an atrial
tachyarrhythmia with 2:1 block that was presumed to be atrial
flutter. Her heart rate was noted to be in the 110s to 120s , and
the rest of her vital signs were stable. The patient denied any
chest pain , shortness of breath , lightheadedness , or
palpitations. It should be noted however that the patient was
not entirely conversant. After speaking with the patient's son ,
more information was obtained about this patient's subacute
change in her mental status. The patient was admitted in July
of 2004 for a fall and femur fracture. During that admission ,
the son stated that the patient had an acute change in her mental
status such that she did not know who she was or where she was.
She was not answering questions appropriately. This was
persistent during that hospital stay and was of unclear etiology.
Prior to that admission , the patient is at baseline oriented to
person , place and time , and she is also very conversant. The son
does admit that the patient occasionally becomes confused about
the day of the week. Upon discharge from that admission , the
patient was sent to the Sa Pehall for rehabilitation. The
son says that over the last few months , she has become slightly
better but definitely not at her baseline. He states that she is
often disoriented to person and place , although she does answer
some questions appropriately. The day prior to her admission ,
the patient's other son visit with her at the Sa Pehall and
did not notice any change in her mental status since her
discharge. He has noted decreased p.o. intake over the last
month with the patient often refusing to eat. Upon questioning
the patient , she denies chest pain , abdominal pain , shortness of
breath , lightheadedness , and palpitations. Although , she does
answer yes and no to some questions , she is not very conversant
and does not volunteer any additional information.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Idiopathic cardiomyopathy status post heart transplant in
1991 complicated by allograft coronary artery disease ,
post-transplant MVR and TVR , and transplant rejection x2.
2. End-stage renal disease on hemodialysis ( Monday , Wednesday ,
Friday hemodialysis ).
3. Diabetes mellitus.
4. Hypertension.
5. Peptic ulcer disease.
6. History of right frontal CVA.
7. Recurrent falls of unclear etiology with a Reveal monitor
implanted.
8. Asthma.
HOME MEDICATIONS: Labetalol 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Imdur 30 mg p.o.
q.day , lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.day , insulin NPH 20 units subcu
q.a.m. , Nephrocaps one tablet p.o. q.day , Nexium 40 mg p.o.
q.day , prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.d. , Imuran 50 mg p.o. q.day ,
rapamycin 8 mg p.o. q.day , sevelamer 800 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lipitor
20 mg p.o. q.day , aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.day.
ALLERGIES: Percocet.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 96.3 , pulse 110 , blood
pressure 90/60 , respiratory rate 18 , oxygen saturation 96% on
room air. In general , the patient appears slightly cachetic and
is in no acute distress. She is awake and is occasionally
responding to questions but is otherwise not very conversant.
She is oriented to place. Her head and neck exam is
unremarkable. Her cardiovascular exam is notable for regular
rate and rhythm , normal S1 and S2 , no gallops , 2/6 systolic
murmur at the apex. Her JVP was noted to be 8 cm. Her lungs
were clear to auscultation bilaterally on a limited physical exam
( the patient is not inspiring deeply on request ). Her abdomen is
benign. Her extremities are warm with 1+ DP pulses. Her right
upper extremity graft is without thrill and without bruit.
LABORATORY DATA: Her laboratory values were notable for a BUN of
44 , creatinine 6.8 , calcium 11.2 , PTH 263 , white blood cells 6.7 ,
hematocrit 47.3 , and platelets 261.
EKG: Her EKG displayed a flutter with a 2:1 block. Her heart
rate was estimated to be at 110.
Studies: Ms. Tylor had a noncontrast head CT that was notable
for widened ventricles and subarachnoid spaces. She was noted to
have extensive periventricular and subcortical white matter
changes. There was a focal lesion in the frontal lobe on the
right consistent with old infarct and unchanged from her CT scan
two months prior. There was no evidence for hemorrhage. In
general , there was no change in the CT scan when compared to her
CT scan from 5/17/04. The patient underwent a transthoracic
echocardiogram on 8/20/04. This TTE showed LV with a normal
size and moderate concentric LVH. Her LVEF was noted to be 55%.
There were no wall motion abnormalities. Her RV size and
function was grossly normal. Her mitral valve was noted to be
status post repair with a transmitral gradient of 4.0 mmHg.
There was trace MR. There was no change in this echocardiogram
when compared to her echocardiogram from 4/7/04. The patient
also underwent a lumbar puncture. Her CSF was notable for an
elevated protein. Her CSF had a normal glucose , two white blood
cells with lymphocyte predominance , gram stain that did not show
any organisms , and cultures that are no growth to date. On
cytology , there were no malignant cells seen in the CSF. Her
cryptococcal antigen was negative. CSF studies that are pending
include the following: CMV culture , HSV culture , VZV culture ,
Listeria culture , HSV PCR , CMV PCR , HHV6 PCR , VZV PCR , and VDRL.
The cultures thus far have had no growth to date.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: Ms. Tylor is a 61-year-old female with a
history of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy status post cardiac
transplant in 1991 complicated by allograft coronary artery
disease , post transplant MVR and TVR , and rejection , also with
end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , hypertension and
diabetes mellitus who presented with a right upper extremity
fistula clot , new atrial flutter with 2:1 block and a change in
her mental status that has been of many months.
1. Cardiovascular:
A. Pump: The patient is status post cardiac transplant and has
been maintained on her outpatient immunosuppressive regimen.
This includes prednisone , rapamycin , and Imuran. She has
remained euvolemic during her hospital admission.
B. Ischemia: There were no active issues , and the patient was
maintained on her outpatient regimen of aspirin , statin and
Imdur.
C. Rhythm: Electrophysiology has been seeing the patient and
has recommended medical management for her atrial flutter/atrial
fibrillation with 2:1 block. The patient's heart rate ranged
from the 80s to 120s , and she was started on diltiazem 60 mg p.o.
q.i.d. She seemed to respond well to the diltiazem , although it
was hard to measure a response since the patient often refused
her medications. The patient was also maintained on metoprolol
75 mg p.o. q.i.d. It was hoped that the addition of the
diltiazem to the metoprolol would allow for the rate control of
this patient's atrial arrhythmia.
2. Renal: The patient has a history of end-stage renal disease
on hemodialysis. A tunneled hemodialysis catheter was placed on
3/9/04 for temporary access for hemodialysis. She was dialyzed
while in the hospital and maintained on Nephrocaps. She is
scheduled on 11/28/04 for a right upper extremity venogram in
order to access her anatomy for the vascular surgeons to create
hemodialysis access.
3. Neurology/psychiatry: The patient's change in mental status
over the last few months is still of an unclear etiology. She
underwent an EEG that showed diffuse slowing that was consistent
with a toxic metabolic etiology. There was no seizure activity.
She underwent two CT scans of her head without contrast that were
negative for bleed. There were no changes in her CT scans when
compared to prior CT scan. She also underwent an LP with CSF as
mentioned above. An MRI was not completed as the patient has an
event monitor in her heart. The differential diagnosis for this
patient is changed and her mental status still includes
depression and pseudodementia , and we are still ruling out
infectious etiologies with the CSF studies that are pending at
the moment ( although this is unlikely ). It is hoped that she
will be able to follow up with neuropsychiatric testing in order
to further evaluate her change in mental status. It should be
noted that during her hospital stay , the patient's level of
interaction with the staff varied. There were days where she was
more conversant and would answer many questions appropriately.
There were also times when the patient refused to speak with
staff , appeared withdrawn and refused medications and treatments.
The son has noted that she was actually better in the hospital ,
appearing more conversant and interactive. It does not appear
that these periods of increased interaction with staff and family
were in any correlation with this patient's hemodialysis.
4. Endocrinology: The patient has type 2 diabetes on insulin at
home. She was maintained on a sliding scale of lispro with
fingersticks blood glucose before every meal and before sleeping.
Her blood sugars were in control and ranged between 110 to 240.
5. Infectious diseases: The patient has had a few low-grade
temperatures to the 100.0. An infectious workup did not yield
any etiology. She has not had an elevation in her white blood
cell count , although this may be a result of her
immunosuppression. Blood cultures from 7/10/04 yielded no
growth. Urine was not cultured , as the patient is anuric.
6. Feeding and electrolytes: The patient was hypercalcemic on
admission. This was attributed to vitamin D per the renal
fellow. Her calcium levels were followed and trended into the
normal range. She was fed a pureed and honey thick diet after
her speech and swallow evaluation indicated that the patient had
intact swallowing function.
7. GI: The patient has a history of peptic ulcer disease , and
she was given Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.day.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day , Imuran 50 mg
p.o. q.day , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , heparin 5000 units
subcutaneously t.i.d. , prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.day , simvastatin 40
mg p.o. q.day , Imdur sustained release 30 mg p.o. q.day ,
Nephrocaps one tablet q.day , sliding scale of lispro insulin ,
rapamycin 8 mg p.o. q.day , Cartia XT 240 mg p.o. q.day , and
Toprol XL 300 mg p.o. q.day.
The patient was discharged to a Rehabilitation Center in stable
condition. She is to follow up with vascular surgery for a new
access for hemodialysis. It is hoped that she will follow up
with neuropsychiatric testing in order to further evaluate her
subacute change in mental status. The patient has three sons
that are very involved in her care. One of her sons is named
Adelaida Tylor , and his phone number is 628-128-5920.
eScription document: 0-9073313 ISSten Tel
Dictated By: YEAGLEY , MA
Attending: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE
Dictation ID 3161486
D: 10/11/04
T: 11/28/04