680159882 | PUO | 61129049 | | 560821 | 2/9/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/28/1996 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/12/1996
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: ATYPICAL ANGINA AND CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 76 year old male with
increased anginal symptoms for
approximately one month post-PTCA. This patient had known
multivessel coronary artery disease status post angioplasty
admitted with six hours of rest chest pain with non-diagnostic EKG
changes and initial troponin and CK negative. Patient's risk
factors include a history of hypertension , prior history of
tobacco , non-insulin dependent diabetes , his age , and sex. In
April 1995 , the patient developed his first symptoms of cardiac
angina. He was admitted on 7/10/95 with chest pain at rest and
minimal EKG changes. CK initially was 210 and MB was not done.
Patient did not rule in. On 10/23/95 , the patient underwent
cardiac catheterization with elevated right atrial pressure of 39
and 14 , mildly elevated , and three vessel disease with 70% proximal
stenosis of his left anterior descending artery , 90% apical
stenosis with 30% stenosis of the left circumflex , and two serial
95% stenoses distally of the left circumflex noted. His first
diffuse marginal branch had 30% to 40% diffuse luminal irregularity
in his right coronary artery. Posterior descending artery was
noted to have a 90% mid stenosis. Systolic function was normal
with ejection fraction of 71%. On 10/23/95 , the patient had a
balloon angioplasty of the proximal and 95% stenosis of his left
circumflex artery. On 11/1/95 , the patient continued to complain
of chest pressure. He underwent exercise tolerance test. He went
five minutes and one second stopping secondary to leg fatigue with
a 2 mm ST segment depression. He underwent cardiac catheterization
with angioplasty of his mid posterior descending artery with 30%
residual stenosis and a small dissection of the inferior margin of
the vessel. He was discharged home aspirin , Lisinopril , Atenolol ,
Micronase , and enoxaparin. Patient was well at home until the day
of his admission when he had retrosternal chest pressure of 10/10
at approximately 6 p.m. He took three sublinguals without relief
and presented to the Emergency Room with 5/10 chest pressure. In
the Emergency Room , he had some relief of his chest pressure with
sublingual nitroglycerin and intravenous nitroglycerin brought
significant relief. He had non-diagnostic EKG changes but was
admitted to the CCU for concern for unstable anginal pattern.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for C4-C5 radiculopathy with
steroid injection for pain control , inguinal
hernia , and benign prostatic hypertrophy status post transurethral
resection of the prostate.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 q.d. , Lisinopril
7.5 q.d. , Atenolol 75 q.d. , Micronase 5 q.d. ,
and enoxaparin 60 mg q.12h.
ALLERGIES: Patient was allergic to penicillin with a rash.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , patient was in no acute
distress with a heart rate of 54 , blood
pressure 114/78 , respiratory rate 18 , and saturation 97% on four
liters. On 100 micrograms of nitroglycerin and Heparin , there was
no chest discomfort. HEENT: Benign. LUNGS: Few basilar
crackles. CARDIOVASCULAR: Examination showed bradycardia with
II/VI systolic murmur at the left lower sternal border and apex.
ABDOMEN: Benign. EXTREMITIES: No clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission was notable for a potassium
of 3.9 , hematocrit of 37.1 , troponin of 0 ,
and CK initially of 121. EKG revealed a sinus bradycardia with
normal intervals , normal axis , and no new change as compared to old
EKG.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Assessment was that this was basically a 76 year
old with known coronary artery disease presenting
with unstable angina with no significant troponin or CK values.
Given his history of recent intervention and coronary artery
disease , this appeared consistent with unstable angina. The
patient was ruled out for a myocardial infarction with his CK flat
and repeat troponin of 0. He was continued on intravenous Heparin
and nitroglycerin in the interval amount of time until he ruled out
and his aspirin therapy was decreased down to 81 with simvastatin
started. Patient received repeat catheterization on 1/9/96 which
revealed 50% stenosis at the mid left circumflex at the PTA site ,
30% to 40% stenosis of the distal posterior descending artery at
the PTA site , 40% proximal left anterior descending , 95% distal
left anterior descending at the apex , and 70% distal left
circumflex giving rise to two PLV branches. The plan was that the
patient would get a distal left circumflex PTCA tomorrow when there
would be surgical back-up available. The patient was continued on
intravenous Heparin and nitroglycerin overnight without any
recurrent chest discomfort. On 10/16/96 , the patient had PTCA
times three at the mid left circumflex 50% to 60% stenosis
ballooned to 30% , distal left circumflex 80% stenosis was ballooned
to 30% residual , and distal left anterior descending with 90%
stenosis ballooned to 20% residual. Post-PTCA , the patient was
continued on Heparin overnight without any recurrent chest
discomfort. There was a issue with this patient of whether his
chest discomfort given its atypical nature was cardiac in etiology
although he definitely had disease on angiography but he had
significant possibility for other etiologies as a source for his
discomfort such as cervical radiculopathy with left arm numbness
and occasional anterior chest discomfort which he had difficulty
distinguishing from any anginal-like discomfort. He also had a
history of gastrointestinal distress with frequent gaseousness.
The patient was basically observed 24 hours after his Heparin was
stopped , he was restarted on enoxaparin , and continued on aspirin ,
Captopril , Lopressor , and simvastatin. Patient did not have any
recurrent chest discomfort in the interim observation and he was
discharged home on a stable out-patient regimen. Additional
in-house issues included that gastrointestinally , patient was
continued on Prilosec and Maalox therapy for his gaseousness and
gastrointestinal distress. Given the crackles on examination , he
had a chest x-ray which was negative for any infiltrate and he
required some O2 supplementation initially when he presented but he
was weaned off O2 prior to discharge. As far as his diabetes , he
continued on his out-patient Micronase with b.i.d. fingerstick
monitoring which was normal. Fluids , electrolyte , and nutrition
wise , his potassium and magnesium were kept optimally repleted
given his cardiac history.
DISPOSITION: Patient is discharged in stable condition.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Atenolol 25 mg q.d. , Micronase 5 mg q.d. ,
Lisinopril 2.5 mg q.d. , and sublingual nitroglycerin.
FOLLOW-UP: Patient is to schedule a follow-up appointment with Dr.
Meduna for cardiac follow-up. The plan was that
he would call Dr. Meduna for follow-up.
Dictated By: CORRINA I. CROOKED , M.D. SJ80
Attending: JACKSON E. PART , M.D. RM7
KU610/9003
Batch: 37758 Index No. OJTVI03H9S D: 10/25/96
T: 7/6/96