226150645 | PUO | 05155308 | | 046240 | 3/11/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/30/1993 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 2/24/1993
S Monte Ora SERVICE
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: PRESYNCOPE.
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 56 year old black female
with coronary artery disease ,
status post three myocardial infarctions and a coronary artery
bypass graft between the years of 1973 and 1984 , who now came into
the hospital with back pain and one episode of dizziness with a
racing heart. Her cardiac history begins in 1973 when she had her
first myocardial infarction. She has had two more in 1983 and in
1984. She had a coronary artery bypass graft in 1984 in which her
LIMA was placed to her LAD , and the saphenous vein graft placed to
her obtuse marginal and the diagonal branch. The coronary artery
bypass graft in 1984 was very successful , and she has been stable
since that time without angina or congestive heart failure
symptoms. She reports that she had a negative exercise tolerance
test one year ago , Holter two to three years ago was reportedly
normal also. The only time the patient recalls having a racing
heart prior to the day of admission was when her brother died two
years ago.
On the day of admission , the patient awoke with a dull ,
nonradiating pain between her shoulder blades that remained until
the patient was given 02 in the Emergency Ward which was
approximately 12 hours after awakening. The patient was never with
this pain before the day of admission. In additional , as the
patient was walking down the street near her home on the morning of
the day of admission , she felt herself stagger , and the world
seemed to rotate around her. She sat down for about 10 minutes
until the spell passed. During this episode , her back pain did not
change in quality or intensity. She had no chest pain , shortness
of breath , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , loss of consciousness ,
trauma , headache , neck stiffness , blurry vision , paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea , or orthopnea. She does report an accompanying
racing heart that seemed regular. After this episode , the patient
drove herself to the Pagham University Of Emergency Ward
for evaluation.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient had menopause at 42 years of age.
She has never had a mammogram or regular breast exams. The rest of
her review of systems was noncontributory. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Coronary artery disease , status post coronary artery bypass graft
in 1984 as reported in the history of the present illness. She has
had hypertension for ten years. An echocardiogram in 3/27 showed
left ventricular enlargement , inferior apicokinesis , lateral
hypokinesis , and 1+ mitral regurgitation. ALLERGIES: To
Penicillin which leads to anaphylaxis. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Were only Isordil and Cardizem. The patient has a 15 pack-year
history of smoking. She quit two months ago. She does not drink
alcohol or abuse IV drugs. She lives alone and is unemployed as an
unemployed LPN , and has one child.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was a well developed well nourished
black female very anxious and teary eyed.
Blood pressure on admission was 180/90 in the right arm and 180/95
in the left arm , pulses were equal at 72. She was afebrile at
98.7 , and respirations of 20. She was not orthostatic. The skin
was warm and dry. There were no rashes or bleeding. HEENT exam
was benign. The neck was supple , positive jugular venous
distention at about 10 cm , but no coronary artery bruits. The
lungs were clear. The back was without costovertebral angle
tenderness or spinal tenderness. Cardiovascular exam: Regular
rate and rhythm with an S3 and a palpable S4 , with a holosystolic
murmur at the apex and a systolic ejection murmur at the left lower
sternal border. No radiation of either murmur. Her PMI was
diffuse with a sternal heave. Abdominal exam was benign.
Extremities were benign. Pulses: Femoral on the left with a
bruit , and 2+ femoral on the right without a bruit , and 1+. The
rest of the pulses were 1-2+ bilaterally. No renal artery bruits
were heard. Neurologically , the patient was alert and oriented ,
and her exam was nonfocal.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission showed a normal SMA-7. Her
hematocrit was 41.5 with a low MCV at 78.7 , low
MCH at 31.3 , and a RDW of 16.1. The patient ruled out for a
myocardial infarction with normal CK's. Her chest x-ray showed a
globular heart , question of some cardiomegaly , clearly post
coronary artery bypass graft with lots of clips. She had right
atrial enlargement with loss of the retrosternal air space , but no
evidence of aortic widening of the mediastinum. No pulmonary
edema , no pulmonary vascular redistribution was detected. EKG
showed normal sinus rhythm at 80 with a PR interval of .14 , QRS
.11 , and a QT of .45. She had left atrial enlargement , old lateral
T-wave inversions as well as inferior T-wave inversions. The
patient had no acute changes.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Involved placing the patient on a cardiac
monitor , rule her out for an myocardial
infarction , obtaining exercise stress test , echocardiogram , drawing
blood for thyroid function tests , VMA's , metanephrines in the
urine. In addition , a beta blocker was added to her hypertensive
regimen , and she was started on an aspirin a day. Her cardiac
monitor demonstrated no dysrhythmias except for a few PVC's. The
results of the 24 hour Holter on discharge were still pending. She
ruled out for a myocardial infarction. An exercise stress test
showed that the patient went 5 minutes and 45 seconds on a standard
Bruce protocol , no ischemic symptoms , stopped due to leg pains.
EKG was with 1 mm upsloping ST depressions in V4 and V5. It was
reportedly consistent with but not diagnostic of ischemia. Because
of this , the patient should probably have an exercise MIBI on the
outside as an outpatient. An echocardiogram demonstrated an
ejection fraction of 45-50% , severe hypokinesis of the
anterolateral and posterior wall , akinesis of the inferior wall ,
2-3+ mitral regurgitation , and an intra-atrial septal aneurysm , no
tumor or thrombus was detected.
Laboratory studies on admission did demonstrate an elevated protein
of 8.5 and a globulin fraction of 4.2. Therefore , an S-PEP , IgG
and IgM's were sent and were pending on discharge.
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Isordil 10 mg t.i.d. ,
Cardizem 60 mg q.i.d. , Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , and an
Aspirin a day. The patient was discharged to home in very stable
condition and will followup in KTDUOO on 8/28/93 at 1:30. A copy of
this discharge should be sent to Dr. Gossard , telephone number
666-4434 , who is her primary medical doctor. During her stay here ,
we were not able to get hold of him and notify him of the patient's
status.
Dictated By: GAYLENE FANIEL , M.D. KM4
Attending: COLE T. AINI , M.D. TY82
IA979/4242
Batch: 0983 Index No. ZGMWS32DJ5 D: 6/23/93
T: 6/23/93
CC: 1. DR. WHACK ,