580084969 | PUO | 29047049 | | 1348217 | 8/20/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/21/2003
Date of Discharge: 6/21/2003
ATTENDING: RUFUS CARLIE BERNAS MD
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: Shortness of breath.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Pulmonary fibrosis.
2. Pulmonary hypertension.
3. Diverticulitis.
4. Acute renal failure.
5. Gout.
6. Hypertension.
7. High cholesterol.
8. Diabetes Mellitus.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 62-year-old
female with a past medical history of significant obesity ,
diabetes , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , heart failure ,
pulmonary fibrosis , on home O2 who presented with shortness of
breath , and left jaw pain on 8/10/2003 .  She had been in her
usual state of health until approximately 6 p.m. on the day of
admission , when at that time , she suddenly became short of
breath. She reports that she then sat down in her wheelchair and
"passed out." However , it is unclear if the patient actually
lost consciousness. The patient also developed jaw pain
radiating to her back while EMTs were present and also complained
of a tug in her chest. The pain was unrelieved by nitroglycerin ,
oxygen; it was constant in nature. At the time of her arrival in
the emergency room , the patient was hemodynamically stable with
an O2 sat of 99% on room air. She was given sublingual nitrate
with no effect. Because of her history of coronary artery
disease , she was tried on heparin and aspirin.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Pulmonary fibrosis , on home O2.
2. Reported history of an anterolateral MI.
3. Diabetes.
4. Hypertension.
5. High cholesterol.
MEDICATIONS: On admission , insulin 70/30 22 units q.a.m. 26
units q.p.m. , atenolol 25 q.d. , Zocor 20 q.d. , Zoloft 50 q.d. ,
Lasix 60 p.o. b.i.d. , Neurontin 100 t.i.d. , aspirin , and
multivitamin.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , temperature was 97 , pulse
was 54-60 , blood pressure was 100-120/50-80 , and O2 sat was 98%
to 99% on 6 liters. She was a moderately obese woman in no acute
distress. Her lung are notable for crackles at the bases. Her
cardiac exam was notable for distant heart sounds with a normal
S1 , S2. She had no pedal edema in her extremities.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission were notable for a BUN and
creatinine of 31 and 1.1. Normal LFTs The patient's hematocrit
was 38. Her D-dimer was 736.
Her EKG showed normal sinus at low voltages , poor R-wave
progression.
IMPRESSION: At the time of admission , the patient was a
62-year-old female with morbid obesity and chronic episodes of
shortness of breath , this time accompanied by jaw pain and with a
history of coronary artery disease and multiple risk factors
concerning for acute coronary syndrome. The patient was
initially treated for a possible ischemic event. Diagnosis of PE
results were considered. However , the patient was not
tachycardic. She did not have any chest pain or new O2
requirements and had had several workups for pulmonary embolism
during prior hospitalization with similar systems , so therefore ,
this was thought to be less likely.
HOSPITAL COURSE: By system:
CARDIAC. In terms of ischemia , the patient had 3 tests of
cardiac enzymes , which returned negative. She was maintained on
telemetry , and she had EKG checked , which did not reveal any
changes. This was a patient who had a dobutamine MIBI , which was
negative for any evidence of ischemic changes. During the MIBI ,
there was no evidence of ischemia and/or scar. The patient was
continued on her outpatient medications including aspirin , Zocor ,
and atenolol. However , at a later point in her hospitalization ,
she became hypotensive at which time her atenolol was temporarily
DC'd , but this was restarted prior to discharge. In terms of the
patient's cardiac function , she has a history of CHF and is on
Lasix as an outpatient. An echocardiogram was repeated during
this hospitalization , which was notable for an EF of 60% ,
trace-to-mild MR , moderate TR , and estimated pulmonary systolic
pressure at 70 mmHg. The patient was continued on outpatient
Lasix regimen until at a later point during this hospitalization ,
the patient became hypertensive with acute renal failure at which
time her Lasix was discontinued. Lasix was restarted prior to
discharge. In terms of the patient's rhythm , she had no evidence
of arrhythmias monitored throughout her hospitalization.
GI. On 10/10/2003 , the patient developed acute onset of diarrhea
and lower abdominal pain. Now , this pain was nonradiating ,
alternating sharp and dull but constant , associated with nausea
and vomiting , and frequent stools. At times , the stools were
notable for bright red blood. The patient was therefore started
on levofloxacin and Flagyl as treatment for diverticulitis versus
ischemic colitis. To further evaluate this , a CT scan of the
abdomen was done , which was notable for a thickened colon for 10
cm at the hepatic flexure. Given this information , it was the GI
consult's opinion that this is most likely consistent with
diverticulitis , and the plan was to treat it aggressively with
antibiotics , and once the symptoms resolved , recommended a
colonoscopy several weeks after discharge. The patient was
continued on levofloxacin and Flagyl , but then , several days
later , became hypotensive with systolic blood pressures in the
80s. At this time , the patient's antibiotic coverage was changed
to include Ceptaz and vancomycin , and she also received 1 dose of
gentamicin. By the time of discharge , the patient's abdominal
symptoms have completely resolved. She is no longer having any
abdominal pain , and she needs no longer having any diarrhea and
is tolerating a regular diet without any difficulties. The plan
is for her to have a followup colonoscopy as an outpatient.
PULMONARY: The patient was admitted for shortness of breath. A
differential diagnosis at that time included chronic pulmonary
embolism versus cardiac etiology versus deconditioning in the
setting of a chronic pulmonary fibrosis. To establish that the
patient did not have any PE , she had lower extremity Doppler
exams , which were negative. She also had a PT protocol CT , which
was negative for any evidence of clots. Because the patient does
have cardiopulmonary hypertension , she was started on Coumadin as
prophylaxis for any thrombosis in the setting of her low flow in
her pulmonary vasculature. Throughout this hospitalization , she
was continued on her own home regimen of O2.
RENAL: The patient has baseline chronic renal insufficiency with
a baseline creatinine at 1.4 during this hospitalization at a
time that her diarrhea was very severe , and when her blood
pressures fell in the 80s , the patient developed acute renal
failure with a peak creatinine of 2.4 with decreased urine
output. The thought of the team was that this represented a
renal failure in the setting of her diarrhea , fluid losses , and
hypertension. Her pheno was consistent with this at 0.71. She
was treated with aggressive IV fluids. She also had a renal
ultrasound , which was normal. She did have 1 day of hematuria ,
which was thought to be due most likely to Foley trauma , which
resolved at the time of discharge.
ID: The patient's hospital course was notable for a diarrhea as
mentioned in GI. She was initially treated with levofloxacin and
Flagyl and then when she became hypertensive was then change her
Flagyl , Ceptaz , and vancomycin with 1 dose of gentamicin. Her
symptoms dramatically improved on these antibiotics on 9/18 she
was changed from IV antibiotics to a p.o. regimen of Flagyl and
levofloxacin. The plan is for her to continue a total of 14 days
of antibiotics. I anticipate the last day of antibiotic coverage
will be 2/19/2003 .
RHEUMATOLOGY: On 10/27/2003 , the patient was noted to have left
knee pain and was noted to have some focal lateral patellar
tenderness and swelling. A knee aspirate was performed and urate
crystals were identified , and the patient was diagnosed with
gout. Because of her chronic renal insufficiency and diarrhea ,
the decision was made to treat her gout flare with steroids , and
she is currently is on a steroid taper as treatment.
ENDOCRINE: The patient has a history of diabetes. She takes
70/30 insulin at home. She was initially continued on an
outpatient regimen; however , when she started to begin having
massive diarrhea , she was taken off her long-acting insulin ,
because she was not taking anything by p.o. At this time , she
was not tolerating a regular diet , and her insulin requirements
were increasing. It is recommended that as an outpatient , she
resumes one-half of her regular outpatient insulin dose for 1 or
2 days to ensure that her insulin requirements in her diet are
appropriate , and then , she should resume her regular insulin
dosage.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Include aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,
atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Zoloft 50 mg
p.o. q.d. , Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Neurontin 300 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. , Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. ,
prednisone taper - which involves 10 mg of prednisone on 8/14
followed by 5 mg of prednisone on 10/27 , 1/24 , and 3/1 and
then stop , Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. , insulin 70/30 11 units
q.a.m. 13 units q.p.m. - once it is established that the patient
has returned to her regular diet , this dosage should be doubled
to her outpatient regular dose , and Flexeril 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.
DISPOSITION: The patient has been discharged to a rehab
facility.
FOLLOWUP: The patient is to follow up with her primary care
physician , Dr. Macisaac following discharge.
ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS: Antibiotics should be continued until
2/19/2003 .  The patient should have her INR checked in 3 days.
Her goal INR is 2. Once off levofloxacin , her dose of Coumadin
may need to be adjusted.
2. The patient should have an outpatient colonoscopy and treated
for a week to further assess for diverticulitis.
3. Fingerstick blood glucoses should be followed regularly as
the patient's insulin dose is titrated up to her previous
outpatient dose.
eScription document: 3-7746634 KFFocus
Dictated By: HALFACRE , SOLOMON LIESELOTTE
Attending: BERNAS , RUFUS CARLIE
Dictation ID 7393365
D: 1/1/03
T: 1/1/03