777803061 | PUO | 83517641 | | 983052 | 5/21/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/14/1994 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/11/1994
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: 1 ) POSSIBLE LEFT HEMISPHERE STROKE WITH
TRANSCORTICAL APHASIA.
2 ) RULE OUT MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION , NEGATIVE.
3 ) HYPERCALCEMIA.
4 ) ELEVATED LIVER FUNCTION TESTS.
5 ) DEPRESSION.
6 ) DIABETES MELLITUS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 55 year old right handed
woman with a history of diabetes on
Insulin for three years , hypertension , question of migraine
headaches for more than ten years , and question of benign
positional vertigo admitted with blurred vision , light headedness ,
and slurred and slowed speech since early the morning of
presentation and substernal chest pain times two weeks
intermittently. Patient had a greater than ten year history of
headaches , usually unilateral although alternating between left and
right , frontal and occipital , throbbing , and usually without visual
changes , possible migraine. Most recently , she has had the
headaches present for about three to four days and now has a left
sided frontal and occipital area headache. The morning of
presentation , she awoke and then when she tried to sit up , felt
light headed but without loss of consciousness. Then , when she
tried to talk , she noted slurred and slow speech although she
understood , had positive word-finding , no aphasia , no wheakness , no
numbness , or other sensory changes. Daughter called her Bea Duna Medical Center doctor and she was referred to A Salt Medical Center Emergency Room by ambulance. The patient has also been
complaining of substernal chest pain in the center of her chest ,
dull without radiation , intermittently times two weeks , usually
moderate in intensity , lasting about hours with no precipitating
factors noted , and occurred regardless of activity level , even at
rest associated with mild shortness of breath , no diaphoresis , and
no increased nausea or vomiting. REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Also positive
for mild temperature rise around 99 degrees Fahrenheit. Of note ,
she does have a borderline personality and significant life
stressors of pressures about her job and death of her granddaughter
last year. In the Emergency Room , a head CT was negative for a
bleed , infarct , or mass lesion. She did have chest pain and had
received two sublingual Nitroglycerins without relief , Maalox with
some relief of that pain , and there were no EKG changes. The CK A
and B were flat. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Diabetes mellitus on oral
hypoglycemic times one year and then Insulin times three years
diagnosed as gestational diabetes at first approximately more then
twenty years ago. She also has a history of a hypertension ,
question of benign positional vertigo , cervical radiculopathy ,
bilateral carpal-tunnel syndrome , borderline personality with a
history of major depression , thalassemia trait , gastroesophageal
reflux disease , question of thyroid disease , chronic hepatic
abdominal liver function test rise with a possible biopsy in 6/9
although results are not here , and question of migraines since the
mid 1970s. PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Cholecystectomy and abdominal
hysterectomy. ALLERGIES: Doxycycline which causes mouth tingling ,
Penicillin which causes hives , Novacaine which causes hives , Diuril
which causes itching and nausea , Aldactone which causes hives , and
Aldomet which causes hives. CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Lasix 40 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , NPH Insulin 30 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , Acebutolol 400
mg p.o. b.i.d. , and Valium p.r.n. SOCIAL HISTORY: No cigarettes
and no ethanol. She is a school teacher. FAMILY HISTORY:
Positive for a cerebrovascular accident in her mother at the age of
21 and no coronary artery disease.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: In general , she was an obese black woman
awake but very quiet and reserved but in no
apparent distress. Vital signs showed a temperature of 98 , pulse
78 , blood pressure 140/100 , and respiratory rate 18. Significant
positives included neurological examination of alert and oriented
times three , cranial nerves II-XII generally intact except for
right lower facial weakness with decreased nasolabial fold on the
right , motor was 5/5 in the left side upper extremity and lower
extremity , 5 minus deltoid on the right , and aside from that , 5
throughout , sensory examination was intact to light touch and pin
in upper extremities and lower extremities bilaterally , and toes
were downgoing.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Chest X-Ray showed no infiltrates and EKG
showed 79 , sinus rhythm , a first degree AV
block , left anterior hemi-block , a Q in III and F , and poor R wave
progression. Laboratory values showed a white count of 4.7 ,
hematocrit of 38 , platelet count of 181 , calcium was elevated at
11.5 with an albumin of 4.4 , phosphate was 3.1 , and alkaline
phosphatase 294.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was admitted for a rule out myocardial
infarction for the substernal chest pain although
there was a low index of suspicion for heart attack. She ruled out
by CK and had no EKG changes. CHH Cardiology felt that this chest
pain was not related to her heart or ischemic cause and left it up
to the primary provider , Dr. Gruntz , to arrange for an out-patient
exercise stress test if felt necessary. Most likely , the chest
pain represented some type of gastroesophageal reflux disease and
the patient was restarted on Axid. Another issue was question of
new neurologic deficits although the original head CT showed no
evidence of stroke. The stroke may have been too early to detect
leaving diagnosis of either a new cerebrovascular accident , a
manifestation of a seizure , or a conversion reaction secondary to
her borderline personality. Her primary deficit remained the
slowing of speech without actual slurring of speech and without any
deficits in understanding or expression. A lumbar puncture was
done on the second day of hospitalization with a mildly elevated
protein in the sixties and a glucose in the 120 range. Cell count
was low not consistent with infection. A cardiac echo was also
done which showed normal left ventricular function without any
segmantal wall motion abnormalities , there was a question of left
ventricular hypertrophy , and carotid dopplers were done which
showed no significant disease in the internal carotid arteries ,
however , there was a mild left internal carotid artery plaque.
Patient's neurologic status remained stable during her
hospitalization. She was started on Aspirin on admission. After
much discussion with CHH Neurology as well as with Dr. Gruntz , it
was felt that the patient could be followed as an out-patient. It
is recommended that the patient have Neurology follow-up next week ,
had a repeat CT of the head done to see whether ther is a new
infarct , and also an EEG was recommended by the Neurology
Consultation Servicer here for a question of seizures. Patient
will have home Occupational , Physical , and Speech Therapy provided
through Cialis- Beth Colngea Pinball Valley Hospital .  Another issue was hypercalcemia. Patient had an
elevated calcium on admission. Patient was guaiac negative without
any mass lesions. Patient's chest X-Ray was also read as clear
without any masses. Patient did have a cursory breast examination
without any evidence of a breast mass and has had mammograms in the
past without any evidence of malignancy. The etiology of the
elevated calcium was unclear although leading diagnoses include
primary hyperparathyroidism , prolonged immobilization , or lying in
bed with some leeching of calcium versus a possible malignancy.
Patient should have her calcium followed as an out-patient. She
did have a PTH level drawn during this admission , the results were
not back at the time of discharge , however , this level should be
checked upon her next visit. Patient is now ready for discharge
home.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Acebutolol 400 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , NPH Insulin 30 units subcutaneously q.a.m. ,
Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Ecotrin one tablet p.o. q.d. , and Fioricet
one to two tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. for headache. She will
follow-up with Dr. Mildon next Monday.
Dictated By: KAM ISA , M.D. OW71
Attending: KATHERYN GRUNTZ , M.D. BK2  ZK375/2833
Batch: 0358 Index No. BUDBCV3RD2 D: 10/10/94
T: 11/14/94