713378456 | PUO | 63374638 | | 795361 | 9/9/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/9/1992 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/26/1992
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: CHEST PAIN. SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS IS CEREBRAL
PALSY WITH MENTAL RETARDATION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 27 year old black man
with a history of cerebral palsy and
mental retardation who now presents with chest pain of three days
duration. His cardiac risk factors include positive family history
and a history of hypertension. He does not smoke tobacco and has
no history of diabetes. Note that the patient is a very poor
historian , however , through his mother , he complains of
approximately three weeks of increasing fatigue and malaise. The
week prior to admission , he had a single episode of chest pain at
"work" ( actually his day activity center ) which resolved
spontaneously. Three days prior to admission , the patient had
poorly defined chest pain with marked diaphoresis. This pain was
worse with deep inspiration and , in addition , he had generalized
nausea and malaise with shortness of breath. This pain waxed and
waned over the day and was not exertional in nature. He was seen
at Bussadd Southrys Community Hospital where no laboratories were drawn and he was
referred to follow-up on Friday. One day before admission , the
patient had chest pain radiating to the left upper arm with
numbness in that extremity. He had nausea and occasional
diaphoresis. He had an echocardiogram on that day at Bussadd Southrys Community Hospital which revealed mild left ventricular hypertrophy but no
regional wall motion abnormality and was otherwise normal. On the
day of admission , the patient complained of increased severity of
chest pain with shortness of breath. He "felt sick" but denied
vomiting or diaphoresis. He came to the Pagham University Of Emergency Room where he continued to complain of chest
pain radiating to the left shoulder as well as into the abdomen.
This symptom was worsened with inspiration as well as with central
sternal palpation. At baseline , the patient does little exercise
secondary to his cerebral palsy , he has three-pillow orthopnea but
no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and he has no prior episodes of
chest pain except as described above. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for cerebral palsy as above and also for pneumonia in
1986. CURRENT MEDICATIONS: He takes no medications. ALLERGIES:
He has no allergies. SOCIAL HISTORY: He does not smoke tobacco ,
he does not drink alcohol , and he does not use intravenous drugs.
He is a regular church goer , he lives with his mother , and attends
a day rehabilitation care center. FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for
angina in his mother and a grandfather with coronary artery
disease.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He was afebrile , his blood pressure was
160/130 , heart rate was 65 , respiratory rate
was 20 , and he was 98% saturated on room air. He was an obese
black man in no acute distress. SKIN: Clear. HEENT: The
oropharynx was clear , there was no jugular venous distention ,
carotids were 2+ and equal , pupils were equal , round , and reactive
to light and accommodation , and the neck was supple without
lymphadenopathy. The fundi were not well seen secondary to poor
cooperation. LUNGS: Clear to auscultation. CARDIAC: There was a
regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 were heard , and there was a
II/VI systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border.
ABDOMEN: Obese with positive bowel sounds , it was non-tender ,
slightly tympanitic , there was no hepatosplenomegaly , and the
patient was guaiac negative. EXTREMITIES: Examination revealed no
clubbing , cyanosis , or edema. There was no focal tenderness and
pulses were intact bilaterally. NEUROLOGICAL: He was alert and
oriented times three and he was unable to do simple calculations ,
however , cranial nerves II-XII were intact. Sensory and motor in
the upper and lower extremities were within normal limits , reflexes
were brisk and symmetric , and toes went down.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: EKG revealed normal sinus rhythm with an
axis of 0 degrees and normal intravals.
There was left ventricular hypertrophy by voltage in aVL and there
were no acute ST or T wave changes , however , there was no old EKG
for comparison. An SMA 7 was benign , a CK on admission was 283
with 10 MB , white count was 9.4 , and urinalysis was negative.
Chest X-Ray initially revealed evidence of pulmonary vascular
redistribution , however , a repeat chest X-Ray an hour later was
clear.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the floor and given
his rather indistinct complaints , a broad-based
work-up was initiated including a rule out for myocardial
infarction. Although the patient continued to have elevated CK
with elevated MB , these were electrophoresed and found not to be
MB. There was concern given the pleuritic nature of his chest pain
that the patient may have suffered a pulmonary embolism. Lower
extremity non-invasives were negative as was a VQ scan. The
patient was kept on cardiac monitor until his rule out for
myocardial infarction was complete. Throughout his
hospitalization , the patient continued to complain of diffuse body
pain as well as "feeling sick" , however , he continued to be
afebrile with normal laboratories. On the second hospital day , the
patient became aware of the fact that his mother had been admitted
to an outside hospital for a rule out myocardial infarction. He
became quite agitated and at that time complained of increasing
abdominal pain. He was treated with laxatives and reassurance and
seemed improved. On the fourth hospital day , it was felt that the
patient was not suffering from any serious illness and that the
most dangerous entities had been ruled out. It was felt that he
was most likely suffering from a viral flu syndrome. His blood
pressure was controlled with a beta blocker and he was discharged
in stable condition to home.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Nifedipine XL 30 mg p.o. q.d. , and Pepcid 20 mg p.o.
b.i.d. He will follow-up with Dr. Chaskey in KTDUOO Clinic in one
month's time.
CR151/5558
MARCELA M. JONE , M.D. CF4 D: 4/28/92
Batch: 6353 Report: N6807G1 T: 2/22/92
Dictated By: GLORY CHASKEY , M.D.