312168433 | PUO | 35188668 | | 4418749 | 1/1/2004 12:00:00 AM | ISCHEMIC COLITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/19/2004 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/18/2004
ATTENDING: VERNON RANDKLEV M.D.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This 81-year-old female with diabetes mellitus , hypertension , and
atrial fibrillation presents with nausea , vomiting , left lower
quadrant pain for one day and chronic nonbloody diarrhea on
6/23/04. The patient has had diarrhea for years , but this
episode was more severe and it was accompanied by nausea and
vomiting. Upon evaluation , she was found to have heme negative
stool. An abdominal CT showed a focal segment of colitis at the
splenic flexure with significant atheromatous disease of the SMA.
Findings were worrisome for mesenteric ischemia. As part of her
preoperative evaluation , she underwent a stress MIBI which showed
anterolateral , apical , and inferoposterior ischemia consistent with
three-vessel disease or left main disease. She does report
intermittent chest pressure and shortness of breath at rest and
with mild exertion over the past few years , increasing in the last three
months. She also reports two-pillow orthopnea and PMD. Given
these findings , the patient underwent cardiac catheterization on
6/11/04 as well as evaluation for celiac , SMA and IMA.
Catheterization showed 40% left main lesion. Otherwise , patent
coronary artery.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Includes diabetes with a hemoglobin A1c of 5.7 in 9/15 ,
hypertension , question of COPD , depression , coronary artery
disease with an echo showing an EF of 45% on baseline inferior
hypokinesis.
MEDICATIONS:
Lasix , atenolol , bupropion , Fosamax , metformin , and lisinopril.
She has no known drug allergies.
On physical exam , the patient was afebrile with a heart rate of
72 , blood pressure of 132/61 , respiratory rate 20 , with an O2
saturation of 93% on room air. Cardiovascular exam was
remarkable for a regular heart rate with a normal S1 and S2.
Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. Abdominal exam was
remarkable for quiet by all sounds. No tenderness and no
distention. Extremities had no edema , 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses
bilaterally.
Abdominal angiography showed patent celiac SMA and IMA.
There was enhanced vascularity in the definitive or sliding
flexure but no embolic or angiographic cut off. The patient was
treated with NG tube to suction which improved his symptoms
although she cotinued to have.
LAB DATA: Remarkable for negative cardiac enzymes x3. Calcium
and magnesium , and potassium were repleted as needed. EKG was
unchanged with normal sinus rhythm with occasional PVCs.
Remainder of hospital course:
1. Cardiovascular: The patient was started on mild Lasix diuresis for
shortness of breath with slight improvement in symptoms.
Echocardiogram showed an ejection fracture of 50% with thick
aortic valve , thick mitral valve with trace MR , trace TR and
hypokinesis. There is severe baseline anteroseptal
distal-lateral apical hypokinesis and base posterior wall is
mildly hyperkinetic. Compared to report from 7/17 , LV
function appeared slightly worse. She was continued on aspirin ,
ACE inhibitor , beta-blocker , statin. She was mainly in normal
sinus rhythm but due to recent paroxysmal atrial fibrillation
with rapid ventricular rate , she remained under rate control with
beta-blockers.
2. GI: The patient was n.p.o. with an NG tube to suction for the
first several days of her admission with resolution of nausea and
vomiting with continued diarrhea. Her diet was advanced to
clears and then a low-residue diet , which she tolerated
well. Her workup for chronic diarrhea included C. diff. , stool
cultures , fecal leukocytes , fecal fat , TSH , ESR , ANA , which were
all negative. Celiac sprue serologies were also sent and were
pending upon discharge. At this point , GI was consulted and the
patient underwent a colonoscopy and EGD. Colonoscopy showed
diverticula in the rectus sigmoid. There is overlying erythema
over the splenic flexure with shallow erosions suggestive of
ischemic colitis. Random biopsies were taken to rule out
microscopic colitis. EGD was unremarkable. Biopsies were
obtained and are pending to rule out H. pylori. Colonoscopy and
EGD biopsies should be followed up as an outpatient. Likely
etiology secondary to microscopic ischemia secondary to
malabsorption of celiac sprue.
:3. Infectious diseases: She completed a six-day course of
ampicillin , levofloxacin , and Flagyl. On 6/11/04 , the patient
remained C. diff negative during the hospitalization.
4. Pulmonary: Shortness of breath likely secondary to pulmonary
process or underlying pulmonary disease in light of normal heart
function which should be followed up as an outpatient.
5. Endocrine: Metformin was held during the hospitalization
secondary to contrast administration. She remained on a regular
insulin sliding scale with adequate blood sugar control.
6. Renal: The patient was hydrated , pre and post di-loads with
unremarkable course of renal function.
7. Prophylaxis: The patient was maintained on subcu heparin and
Pepcid.
The patient was stable , tolerating p.o. intake and p.o. meds.
She was discharged to rehab and will follow up with her primary
care physician and with cardiology and GI.
eScription document: 1-7659916 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: MIN , MARCELINE
Attending: RANDKLEV , VERNON
Dictation ID 9764328
D: 8/23/04
T: 8/23/04