202194964 | PUO | 71735494 | | 919756 | 7/20/1999 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/13/1999 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 11/2/1999
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. Atrial flutter. 2. Congestive heart
failure.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 67-year-old male with
a history of congestive heart failure
and history of atrial flutter in September of 1998. The patient was
admitted to Cardiology for treatment of atrial flutter and
worsening congestive heart failure. The patient initially
presented to Pagham University Of in September of 1998 with
acute shortness of breath and atrial flutter. Chest x-ray at that
time showed congestive heart failure. The patient was initially
rate controlled with Verapamil and Digoxin and converted to normal
sinus rhythm. However , on Digoxin , the patient developed
junctional tachycardia , which reverted back to normal sinus rhythm
after Digoxin was discontinued. Echocardiogram at that time showed
an ejection fraction of 35%. The patient was discharged on 11 of May
in normal sinus rhythm. The patient was discharged on Lopressor ,
Verapamil , Aspirin , and Coumadin , which was stopped five months
ago. The patient did extremely well after discharge until about
five days ago when he ran out of his Atenolol , which he had not
taken since then. Over the past week , the patient had extreme
fatigue and dyspnea on exertion , which steadily worsened. Today ,
the patient was taking out the trash and experienced a few seconds
of chest heaviness on the left side , without any radiation. The
patient reported being short of breath , but had no other symptoms.
Upon trying to the mailbox , the patient was extremely short of
breath and fell to the ground , but had no loss of consciousness.
There was no warning or dizziness. The patient was brought to
Gle Ra Csylv Valley Medical Center Emergency Department. There , the patient was
noted to be in atrial flutter at a rate of 150. The patient was
given IV Lopressor , 5 mg , and his heart rate came down to 106.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: A review of systems was positive for three
pillow orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and increasing
lower extremity swelling over the past week. The patient denied
any fever , chills , night sweats , or change in bowel movements.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history was significant for
high blood pressure , left ankle and left knee arthritis ,
questionable history of gout , gonococcal urethritis ,
diverticulosis , elevated cholesterol , and cardiomyopathy with
ejection fraction of 35% by echocardiogram in September of 1998.
ALLERGIES: The patient has no known drug allergies. MEDICATIONS
ON ADMISSION: At the time of admission , the patient was on
Simvastatin 10 mg p.o. q. day , Amlodipine 5 mg p.o. q. day ,
Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. day , which the patient self discontinued
five days prior to admission , Lisinopril 20 mg q. day , Aspirin ,
B12 , Folate , and Multivitamins. SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient's
social history was significant for tobacco , one pack per day for
forty years. The patient quit in February of 1998. Alcohol was
significant for two to three drinks per day , with none since
September of 1998. There was no history of drug use. The patient
lives in Colorado alone. The patient is a retired social worker.
FAMILY HISTORY: The patient's family history was significant for a
mother with a myocardial infarction at 60 , brother with myocardial
infarction at 54 , and father who is deceased from cerebrovascular
accident.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination , the patient was
afebrile. The heart rate was 115 , blood
pressure 150/100 , and saturation 95% on 2 liters. In general , the
patient was alert and oriented and in no acute distress. HEENT
revealed the patient to be normocephalic , atraumatic. The pupils
were equal , round and reactive to light. The extraocular movements
were intact. The oropharynx was moist. The neck was supple
without bruits. The chest was clear to auscultation.
Cardiovascular examination revealed a 1/6 holosystolic murmur. The
patient was in atrial flutter. The abdominal examination was
benign. The extremities showed 1+ edema bilaterally. There was no
clubbing or cyanosis. Electrocardiogram on admission showed atrial
flutter at rate of 50 , as well as left axis deviation , right bundle
branch block , left ventricular hypertrophy with QRS widening , old
inferior myocardial infarction , and right bundle branch block.
Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with pulmonary vascular congestion ,
consistent with congestive heart failure , and bilateral pleural
effusions.
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory data on admission showed sodium 146 ,
potassium 4.4 , creatinine 1.2 , white blood cell
count 6.7 , hematocrit 42.5 , CK 95 , and troponin 0.05.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Cardiology floor
for treatment of atrial flutter and congestive
heart failure. The patient was ruled out for myocardial
infarction. It was felt that the patient's worsening congestive
heart failure was likely secondary to his flutter. The patient was
started on Lasix in addition to being started on a beta blocker.
However , the patient remained in atrial flutter with poor rate
control. Echocardiogram on 7 of September showed an ejection fraction of
30-35% with global hypokinesis. Of note , also , the patient's
ventricular myocardium showed an echo bright appearance consistent
with possible infiltrative disease. On 14 of October , the patient
underwent cardioversion without complications , as he was still in
atrial flutter and was not having good rate control. The patient
was successfully cardioverted and remained in sinus rhythm
afterwards. However , on 23 of May , the patient was still significantly
short of breath and hypoxic. This was felt probably likely
secondary to fluid overload , and the patient was started on Lasix.
However , the patient underwent a VQ scan and was ruled out for
pulmonary embolism. The patient did well and , on 6 of April , the patient
experienced bilateral lip swelling , consistent with angioedema.
The patient's Lasix and Captopril were discontinued , as it was
unclear which agent had caused this , however , it was most likely
the Captopril. This responded well to Benadryl. The patient was
started on ethacrynic acid and Hydralazine for diuresis and
afterload reduction. The patient did well on this regimen. On
26 of February , the patient was discharged home in stable condition. The
patient was in sinus rhythm and was satting well on room air.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient
was on Albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg
inhaled q. 4-6 hours as needed for wheezing , Enteric coated aspirin
325 mg p.o. q. day , Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. day , Edecrin 25 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , Folate 1 mg p.o. q. day , Hydralazine 10 mg p.o. q.i.d. ,
Simvastatin 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Amlodipine 5 mg p.o. q. day , and
Benadryl 50 mg p.o. q. 6 hours as needed for lip swelling.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient was instructed to follow-up with Dr. Mcneely
in one week. DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home with
services , to be followed by Airv Paulfullna Well , Connecticut 07292 VNA for blood pressure and
weight checks q.o.d.
Dictated By: MA YEAGLEY , M.D. AE12
Attending: DENISHA H. MCRORIE , M.D. XT0
OH081/9907
Batch: 76565 Index No. ZJYPFY4YEE D: 3/17/99
T: 8/20/99
QF9