923502857 | PUO | 39602883 | | 4749133 | 8/29/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/23/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: CHANELLE XOCHITL COLLICA M.D.
DISCHARGE DATE: To be determined.
SERVICE: GMS Y Eu
PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: Failure to thrive.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: Congestive heart failure ,
hypercholesterolemia , gastroesophageal reflux disease , venous
stasis , postherpetic neuralgia , atrial fibrillation , and urinary
tract infection.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 87-year-old female with a
history of congestive heart failure , atrial fibrillation status
post pacemaker placement , and chronic venous stasis who presents
with nausea , vomiting , and failure to thrive. The patient was
recently admitted to Pagham University Of in early
October with a congestive heart failure exacerbation and lower
extremity cellulitis. She was treated with diuresis ( ultimately
with ethacrynic acid as she developed a rash on torsemide and
itching with Lasix ) and a seven-day course of levofloxacin. At
the end of this admission , she was sent to a rehabilitation
facility. The patient had returned on the day of admission to
see her primary care physician. She had been vomiting and
appears severely dehydrated. She reported nausea and vomiting
for eight to nine days , intermittent nonbloody , nonbilious. She
also reported dysphagia for the last two months. She describes
recent dysuria. She also states that she has had no bowel
movement for a week prior to admission. She has had flatus. She
also complains of a baseline right ear pain due to her
postherpetic neuralgia. She has significantly decreased p.o.
intake with increasing generalized weakness. She denies chest
pain or shortness of breath.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Congestive heart failure ,
hypercholesterolemia , gastroesophageal reflux disease , venous
stasis , T6 fracture and lower back pain , history of herpes zoster
with postherpetic neuralgia affecting the right face and ear ,
atrial fibrillation status post pace replacement , and history of
guaiac-positive stools.
MEDICATIONS: Colace , senna , lisinopril 5 mg q. day , Lopressor 25
mg b.i.d. , oxycodone 5 mg q.6h. p.r.n. pain , OxyContin 10 mg
q.12h. , calcium 500 mg t.i.d. , Neurontin 100 mg b.i.d. , Fosamax
70 mg q. week , Protonix 40 mg q. day , and ethacrynic acid 25 mg
b.i.d.
ALLERGIES: Lasix , torsemide , penicillin , erythromycin , capsicum ,
and quinidine.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Recently at the Neyrance F/kane Hospital in
Tinema Mo Wa , otherwise , lives alone in Clear Verl At baseline is
ambulatory with a walker. Remote history of tobacco , quit 50
years ago. No history of alcohol use.
FAMILY HISTORY: Asthma and heart disease in three brothers.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Temperature 96 , heart rate
81 , blood pressure 119/56 , respiratory rate of 20 , O2 sat 99% on
room air. The patient is alert , but uncomfortable and ill
appearing. HEENT: Pupils equal and reactive to light.
Extraocular movements intact. Mucous membranes are dry.
Oropharynx is otherwise clear. There is ptosis of the right lid
( baseline ) and exquisite tenderness over the right base and right
ear. Neck: JVP is 7 cm. Neck is otherwise supple with no
tenderness to palpation. Cardiovascular: Regular rate and
rhythm with a 2/6 systolic murmur at the apex. Lungs are clear
to auscultation bilaterally. Abdomen: Soft , nontender ,
nondistended with normal active bowel sounds. Foley in place
draining a dark , cloudy urine. Extremities: Violaceous skin
changes of the legs bilaterally. 2+ edema. There is an area of
erythema in the left medial great toe , but no evidence of
infected ulceration. Neuro: Alert and oriented x3. Cranial
nerves intact ( except right lid ptosis ). The patient did not
feel well enough to cooperate with a full neurologic exam , but
her strength was symmetric throughout.
LABS ON ADMISSION: Remarkable for a chemistry panel within
normal limits. BUN was 22 , creatinine 1.1 , white count was
13.27 , hematocrit 41.4 , platelets 448 , 000 , ALT 25 , AST 35 ,
alkaline phosphatase 339 , total bilirubin 1.0 , albumin 4.0 ,
amylase 39 , and lipase 14.
IMPRESSION: An 87-year-old female presenting with nausea ,
vomiting , and dehydration as well as dysuria , most likely mainly
due to urinary tract infection secondary to chronic Foley
placement.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. Cardiovascular:
a. Ischemia: No acute issues. The patient was continued on her
beta-blocker. No aspirin was given , as the patient is on
Coumadin and has a history of guaiac-positive stool.
b. Pump: The patient was dry on admission in the setting of
nausea , vomiting , and decreased p.o. intake. Her last echo
showed an EF of 55% presumed diastolic dysfunction ,
mild-to-moderate MR as well as pulmonary hypertension of unclear
etiology ( pulmonary artery pressure was 64 mmHg plus right atrial
pressure ). Initially , the patient's ethacrynic acid was held
given dehydration , but was restarted towards the end of her
admission and titrated out to b.i.d. dosing to maintain a
slightly negative fluid balance. The patient was also continued
on her beta-blocker and ACE inhibitor after she was adequately
hydrated for blood pressure control.
c. Rhythm: The patient has a history of paroxysmal atrial
fibrillation. She has a pacer placed and is V-paced. She is on
Coumadin with her INR at goal.
2. Pulmonary: The admission chest x-ray was read as a streaky
opacity of the right lung base possibly representing an
infiltrate , but curve has been artifact due to low lung volume.
The patient had no clinical evidence of pneumonia ( no cough , lung
exam clear ).
3. GI: The patient had nausea , vomiting for several days prior
to admission with decreased p.o. intake. She also reported no
bowel movement in the last weeks prior to admission. A KUB was
obtained on admission , which showed no evidence of obstruction or
free air. The patient was given stool softeners and laxatives
p.r.n. and began to have her regular bowel movements. She was
continued on Nexium for her history of gastroesophageal reflux
disease. The patient's nausea and vomiting improved overall
throughout her admission , however , intermittently returned.
There is no clear cause for this nausea and vomiting , but it was
thought likely to be a contribution of her opioid medications ,
which were increased early on in her hospitalization to address
her postherpetic neuralgia. The patient's nausea improved with
Reglan. Nausea , vomiting was improved on the day of discharge.
The patient had significantly better p.o. intake. The patient
also complained of dysphagia for two months prior to admission ,
this occurred mainly with solid foods. Per Speech and Swallow ,
the patient was initially on a soft mechanical/thin liquid diet
and is concerned for an obstructive lesion. A video swallow was
obtained on 3/4/05. This study showed no aspiration and normal
passage of fluid of varying consistencies ( although a note was
made of cricopharyngeal prominence ). Speech and Swallow
recommended a minced solid/thin liquid diet , which the patient
has tolerated well. The patient has a history of an elevated
alkaline phosphatase ( with elevated GGT ) of unclear etiology.
Abdominal ultrasound on her last admission in October 2005
showed gallstones , but no other process to explain the
abnormalities in alkaline phosphatase. The patient had no right
upper quadrant pain on this admission.
4. Renal/FEN: The patient was initially given intravenous
fluids for dehydration. She was also found to have a urinary
tract infection and was initially started on levofloxacin
empirically. The urine culture returned was Staph aureus ( the
patient has had indwelling Foley ) and the patient was switched to
doxycycline ( the patient is allergic to sulfa drugs , penicillin ,
and erythromycin ). Blood cultures were negative. The patient
has been afebrile through this admission. She was also noted to
have a urinary retention on a few occasions where an attempt was
made to remove her Foley catheter. This was thought most likely
due to urinary tract infection and to use opioid medications.
The patient will be discharged to rehab with her Foley in place
and is scheduled for a follow-up appointment with Urology on
October , 2005.
5. Neuro: The patient has postherpetic neuralgia affecting her
right face/ear. She was admitted on OxyContin and oxycodone ,
which was titrated out in an attempt to make her more comfortable
and Neurontin was also titrated out with good effect on her pain.
Given her nausea and urinary retention , the patient's opioid
medications were decreased. A trial of a lidoderm patch on the
affected area was attempted prior to discharge.
6. Heme: The patient's INR was at goal ( 2 to 3 ) on Coumadin for
her history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
7. Prophylaxis: The patient was on Nexium and Coumadin.
8. Code status: DNR/DNI.
9. Disposition: The patient will be discharged to a
rehabilitation facility. She will follow up with her primary
care doctor Dr. Avril Taplin In addition , an appointment has
been made for her to see Dr. Dominguez on January , 2005 at 9:30
a.m. In addition , an appointment has been made with Dr. Tonsil
in Neurology on October , 2005 at 11:15 a.m. and it is requested
that the patient's basic metabolic panel be monitored while she
is on ethacrynic acid. In addition , her weight should be
followed daily to check for fluid accumulation. She will also
benefit from physical therapy as she is deconditioned. The
patient is stable at the time of this dictation.
The discharge medications will be dictated in an addendum to this
discharge summary.
eScription document: 1-0615859 ISSten Tel
CC: Avril Taplin M.D.
KTDUOO
Lu Broke Green
Neaeans
CC: Chanelle Xochitl Collica M.D.
Dictated By: CONEDY , ARMINDA
Attending: COLLICA , CHANELLE XOCHITL
Dictation ID 1677703
D: 10/9/05
T: 1/27/05