490354722 | PUO | 62050394 | | 116388 | 10/16/2000 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/16/2000 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/9/2000
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 66 year old male with
mitral regurgitation and a history of
congestive heart failure , who presents for cardiac catheterization
and a coronary artery bypass graft. He has a history of severe
coronary artery disease and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
He is status post multiple previous myocardial infarctions and
presents with dyspnea on exertion over the last several months.
However , he denies any frank chest pain. The patient's cardiac
workup revealed four vessel coronary artery disease and severe
mitral regurgitation. He is preoperatively admitted to the
cardiology service for surgical planning for coronary artery bypass
grafting.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus;
osteomyelitis; anemia; right 5th and left
third toe amputation; peripheral vascular disease; anemia; chronic
renal insufficiency; status post laminectomy; tobacco and alcohol
use.
MEDICATIONS: Insulin , Lasix , Accupril , Digoxin , Isordil , and
aspirin.
ALLERGIES: To fish , which causes swelling.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL: irish-speaking male in no acute
distress. NECK: No carotid bruits. LUNGS:
Crackles at the bases bilaterally. HEART: II/VI systolic ejection
murmur at the axilla , with a displaced of PMI. ABDOMEN: Soft ,
non-tender. EXTREMITIES: The femoral pulses are palpable
bilaterally , however , there were no palpable distal pulses. There
was no evidence of any significant varicosities. The left shin is
significant for two small eschars with a minimal rim of erythema.
His lower extremity is consistent with chronic vascular disease.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for surgical planning.
Previous echocardiogram showed an ejection
fraction of 25-30% , a dilated left atrial size , 4+ MR , and moderate
TR. There was also severe hypokinesis of the inferior posterior
wall of left ventricle. Cardiac catheterization performed on
2/8 showed four vessel disease. Follow-up ABI studies were
stable with the right at 0.68 and the left at 1.61. Carotid
noninvasive studies showed no significant carotid disease to
warrant surgical evaluation.
On 7/23 , the patient was taken to the operating room , where
quadruple coronary artery bypass graft was performed , as well as a
mitral valve repair with a #26 posterior Cosgrove annuloplasty
band. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transported
to the cardiac surgery ICU.
Postoperatively , the patient's course was significant for acute and
chronic renal insufficiency in the setting of a low ejection
fraction , congestive heart failure , and volume overload. The
patient was weaned off of epinephrine and diuresed accordingly. He
was subsequently transferred to the stepdown unit after several
days in the ICU. He continued to progress well with the additional
diuresis. His chest tubes and wires were removed without
difficulty. Radiographs showed improvement in bilateral pulmonary
edema.
On the day of discharge , the patient was stable with stable vital
signs. He was afebrile , with no significant leukocytosis. His
renal function had returned to his baseline of around 2.0.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: ( 1 ) Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.; ( 2 ) captopril
25 mg p.o. t.i.d.; ( 3 ) Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o.
q.d.; ( 4 ) Lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d.; ( 5 ) Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.;
( 6 ) Coumadin for goal INR of 2-3; ( 7 ) Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.; ( 8 )
NPH 20 U subcu. q.a.m.; ( 9 ) ibuprofen 600 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.
pain.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable condition.
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home.
Dictated By: SYLVIA ONIELL , M.D. MB61
Attending: GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D. ZD6
BQ422/7487
Batch: 97924 Index No. WGACVRBC97 D: 10/6
T: 10/6
CC: 1. GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D.