719243531 | PUO | 24802754 | | 697904 | 2/5/1999 12:00:00 AM | RULE OUT MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/5/1999 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 4/15/1999
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: UNSTABLE ANGINA.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:
1. INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS FOR 30 YEARS.
2. HYPERLIPIDEMIA.
3. HYPERTENSION.
4. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
5. STATUS POST RIGHT CORONARY ARTERY STENT PLACEMENT IN THE LEFT
CIRCUMFLEX AND THE OBTUSE MARGINAL ARTERIES IN 1997.
6. TOTAL BLINDNESS X2 YEARS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mrs. Magdalene Reine is a 63 year
old woman with cardiac risk factors
including hypertension , insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus x30
years , elevated cholesterol , known coronary artery disease status
post MI , who presented with 1 1/2 hours of chest pain. This chest
pain began at approximately 9:30 a.m. while the patient was
awaiting her ride to the center for the blind , where she spends
most of her mornings and afternoon. The patient began as a dull
ache substernal in location , described as a squeezing sensation
similar to her past angina , but less strong than the angina she had
had last week before coming to the I Warho Hospital . The
patient described this as 4/10 chest pain. She also had shortness
of breath , diaphoresis , and wrist tingling on the left. The
patient took one sublingual nitro at home with some relief , but the
pain came back as she walking around her home looking for her
hospital identification care. She had worsening of the pain with
exercise. She sat down and her visiting nurse gave her two more
sublingual nitroglycerin with some relief of pain and called the
ambulance. In the ambulance , the patient continued to have the
pain and she received one more sublingual nitroglycerin and nasal
cannula oxygen. The pain was gone upon arrival to I Warho Hospital In the Emergency Department , the patient was found to be
afebrile with heart rate in the high 90s , BP 200s/100s. EKG with
questionable changes compared to old , showing normal sinus rhythm
to leftward axis and LVH. For her elevated heart rate and blood
pressure , the patient received 5 mg of IV Lopressor and 20 mg of
labetalol in the Emergency Department and was started on heparin.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: Zocor 40 mg p.o. q.d.; NPH 25 U subcu. q.a.m.;
Regular insulin 15 U subcu. q.a.m.; captopril 37.5 mg
p.o. t.i.d.; Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.; Imdur 60 mg p.o. q.d.;
ECASA 325 mg p.o. q.d.; Adalat CC 30 mg p.o. q.a.m.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient was born in Mongbock A Ven and immigrated to
the Sonan Palm Etteaeans in 1968. The patient formerly
worked as a nurses aide at Bussadd Southrys Community Hospital . The patient lives
with her son and his wife , and their four children. The patient
has never smoked and does not drink.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Heart rate 73 , BP 93/51 ,
oxygen saturation 98% on room air , and was
afebrile when she arrived on the floor. GENERAL: The patient was
alert and in no acute distress , and as previously noted , the
patient is blind. HEENT: An atrophic right eye with two palpable
recoiled muscles in the upper and lower palpebral margin. Her left
eye is mobile , but has a clouded pupil area. She does not blink to
threat. CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. NECK: Her
jugular venous pressure was not elevated. HEART: Regular rate and
rhythm , with audible S1 , S2 , no murmur , rubs , or gallops were
appreciated. ABDOMEN: Soft , mildly obese , non-tender ,
non-distended. The patient had audible bowel sounds. EXTREMITIES:
No clubbing or cyanosis. She has trace edema in the lower
extremities , good pulses bilaterally in her lower extremities and
in her upper extremities. NEURO: Grossly intact , except for her
visual exam. SKIN: No rashes , warm , and dry.
LABORATORY DATA: Initial labs when the patient arrived included a
normal Chem-7. CBC that was normal , including a
white blood cell count 8 , hematocrit 41.3 , platelets 254 , with 52
polys , 33 lymphs , and 0 bands on her differential. Coags - PT
19.9 , INR 0.8. Initial CK 251 , initial troponin 1.26.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Initial questioning of the patient revealed that
she had actually been admitted less than two
weeks earlier with similar syndrome of chest pain , though as the
patient describes , worse two weeks previously. At that point , the
patient had had a modified Bruce protocol with duration of the test
5 minutes 12 seconds , with 63% of heart rate achieved. The patient
had stopped secondary to chest pain and had had ST-T wave segment
abnormalities , with 1 mm ST segment depressions in inferior leads
and angina. The test was interpreted as being highly predictive of
significant coronary disease. However , at that time , the patient
refused catheterization and decided on medical management for this
anginal pain. However , with the return of this pain and her return
admission to the hospital , the patient made the decision that she
would be catheterized and she was placed on this schedule. Other
initial interventions , other than what was done in the Emergency
Room , which included maximizing blood pressure and heart rate
management with Lopressor. The patient was continued on her daily
aspirin and Zocor. The patient was ruled out for a MI. The
patient's cholesterol and lipids were checked , and an initial
echocardiogram was also obtained on the patient. That echo done on
4/23/99 in the morning revealed overall normal left ventricular
size with preserved systolic function , an estimated ejection
fraction of 60% , and hypokinesis of inferior posterior wall and
septum. The mitral valve was minimally thickened with minimal
mitral regurgitation. There was no significant aortic or tricuspid
valve regurgitation or dysfunction. There was normal right
ventricular size and function. There was no evidence of
pericardial effusion. The left ventricle was thought to be
moderate to severely hypertrophied. However , the inferior
posterior walls were less hypertrophied than other areas. The
patient had one episode of chest pain over the weekend as her cath
was planned for Monday morning. This chest pain occurred on
4/23/99 , again of elevated blood pressure 200/107. It was
relieved by increasing her IV TNG drip to 7.5 mg , IV Lopressor , and
three sublingual nitroglycerins. The patient had no EKG changes ,
and had no other chest pain over the weekend. The patient was
continued on heparin , IV TNG , aspirin , and captopril. Over the
week , her Lopressor was increased to 37.5 mg t.i.d. for better beta
blockade. The patient also had her dose of NPH adjusted to half
her regular dose , as she was having low blood sugars.
The patient's catheterization ultimately was 2/11/99. Findings
included a clean left main coronary artery , a LAD with luminal
irregularities , small vessel in general , and a T1 with about 60%
stenosis , also small vessel , and circumflex with about 70% mid
stenosis. The RCA , where her past stents had been placed , was
completely occluded , which was ballooned and a brief examination of
the abdominal aorta for renal artery stenosis revealed no evidence
of renal artery stenosis. Thus , no stents were placed , but the
patient's old stents were ballooned open with good achieved flow
and 40% residual after ballooning. The patient continued to do
well the day post-cath and ultimately was sent home the following
morning with follow-up with her cardiologist , Dr. Gilcreast
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: ECASA 325 mg p.o. q.d.; captopril 37.5 mg
p.o. t.i.d.; NPH 25 U subcu. q.a.m.;
Regular 15 U subcu. q.a.m.; nitroglycerin 1/150 SL 1 tab p.o. q.5
minutes x3 as needed for chest pain; Zocor 40 mg p.o. q.d.; Imdur
60 mg p.o. q.d.; Adalat CC 30 mg p.o. q.a.m.; Lopressor 50 mg p.o.
t.i.d.
DISCHARGE FOLLOW-UP: The patient will follow-up with her
cardiologist , Dr. Laskey in 1-2 weeks.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable condition.
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home.
Dictated By: ROSSIE MANKOSKI , M.D. IS35
Attending: LEOLA C. MUSICH , M.D. VG64
KZ433/6673
Batch: 02884 Index No. SSMW6PHBZ D: 10/15/99
T: 11/5/99
CC: 1. LEOLA C. MUSICH , M.D.
2. SOMER R. LASKEY , M.D.