756484975 | PUO | 14374811 | | 398734 | 5/5/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/8/1991 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 5/5/1991
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE , QUESTION ASTHMA.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
IDENTIFICATION DATA: This patient is a 59-year-old white female
with known coronary artery disease , past
history of myocardial infarction admitted 4/9/91 with three weeks
of worsening dyspnea on exertion and chest discomfort.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient's coronary risk factors
include hypertension , elevated
cholesterol , 25-pack-year smoking history and a positive family
history. In 1983 , the patient was admitted to Norap Valley Hospital
where she ruled in for a non Q wave myocardial infarction with peak
CK of 182 , 7% MB. EKG showed global T wave inversions. The
patient was transferred to Pagham University Of where a
cardiac catheterization was performed which showed an 80% proximal
LAD lesion and a 30% mid RCA lesion. The patient was then
transferred to Ouf County General Hospital for PTCA. The angioplasty
procedure was not done. The patient was managed medically and did
well for the next seven years from a cardiac standpoint. She had
only minimal anginal symptoms and shortness of breath during that
period. In April of 1988 , the patient had an echocardiogram
which showed significant LVH , decreased LV compliance , borderline
left atrial enlargement and no regional wall motion abnormalities.
In October of 1991 , the patient had an ETT in which she exercised for
four minutes , 28 seconds achieving a peak heart rate of 103 and a
peak blood pressure of 150/60 , stopping secondary to fatigue and
shortness of breath without chest pain or EKG changes. Also in
October of 1991 , the patient had pulmonary function tests which
showed normal spirometry and lung volumes. On 7/28/91 , the patient
was having progressive shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion
that morning. She presented to Dick Stookheights Community Hospital with worsening
dyspnea , wheezing. Her respiratory rate was 30 , and O2 saturation
was 85%. The patient was treated for presumed asthma with
Bronkosol nebulizers and Solu-Medrol. During the second Bronkosol
treatment , the patient developed 2/10 substernal chest pressure
radiating to the left arm which was relieved completely with one
sublingual nitroglycerin. There were no EKG changes. The patient
was transferred to Pagham University Of where she underwent
a V-Q scan , the results of which showed low probability of
pulmonary embolus. O2 saturation was 95%. The patient was sent
home on Ventolin inhaler. The patient stayed at home for the next
three weeks , symptom-free. On 7/14 , the patient while walking at
the Scot Re became acutely short of breath with 2/10
substernal chest pressure radiating to the right arm without
nausea , vomiting or diaphoresis or lightheadedness. The chest
pressure and shortness of breath decreased with rest. The patient
then presented to the Sco Medical Center and was then transferred to
Pagham University Of . PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary
artery disease , status post myocardial infarction as above.
Hypertension. Type II hyperlipidemia. Sjorgren's syndrome.
History of deep venous thromboses in 1981. Status post IVC
umbrella placement in 1981. Fibrocystic breast disease.
MEDICATIONS: On admission included diltiazem SR , 90 mg b.i.d.;
Ventolin inhaler; aspirin. ALLERGIES: NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.
FAMILY HISTORY: Mother died of heart attack at age 78. SOCIAL
HISTORY: The patient works as a Bookkeeper at a law firm. She is
divorced with three grown children. She is a 40-pack-year smoker
and stopped one year ago.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission revealed an obese white
female in no apparent distress. Vital signs
revealed a heart rate of 92 , blood pressure 120/70 , respirations
20 , afebrile. Skin and HEENT exams were normal. Chest revealed no
CVA tenderness. Lungs revealed trace inspiratory crackles at both
bases. There were no wheezes heard. Cardiac exam revealed PMI
nonpalpable , regular rate and rhythm. There was a I/VI midsystolic
murmur heard at the left sternal border , no gallops. JVP was not
appreciated. Carotids were 2+ bilaterally without bruits. Abdomen
was obese , well healed old surgical scars , soft , nontender , no
hepatosplenomegaly. Extremities showed trace pedal edema and
symmetrical pedal pulses. Neurological exam was nonfocal. Rectal
exam was normal.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission included a sodium of 137 , potassium
4.5. Chloride was 103. CO2 19. BUN 18.
Creatinine 1.2. Glucose 205 which normalized to 93 the next day.
Hematocrit was 36. White blood cell count was 14.2. Platelet
count 328 , 000. Urinalysis showed trace red blood cells and some
bacteria. EKG while pain free , showed normal sinus rhythm at 93 ,
axis of 40 degrees , intervals 0.21/0.10/0.36 and flat T waves in I
and L. Chest x-ray showed a question infiltrate in the left base
consistent with atelectasis.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of Emergency
Room where she was tachypneic and wheezing with a
pO2 of 86%. EKG showed only T wave flattening in I and L. The
patient was admitted for presumed asthma and bronchitis and treated
with Bronkosol nebulizers. In the setting of the Bronkosol , the
patient had substernal chest pressure radiating to the left arm.
EKG showed 1 mm of ST depression in I and L and 1 mm ST elevation
in lead III. The pain resolved with three sublingual
nitroglycerin. The pain recurred a few minutes later and was again
resolved with Nitropaste and IV Lopressor. The patient ruled out
for myocardial infarction with CPK's of 43 , 36 , 37. The patient
was then transferred to the Medical Service and was managed with
diltiazem , Lopressor , Isordil and aspirin. On hospital day number
two , the patient went for echocardiogram which was not obtained
because the patient had developed 5/10 substernal chest pressure
which resolved with one sublingual nitroglycerin. There were no
EKG changes , the patient was started on heparin with question of
unstable angina at that time. On hospital day number three , the
patient went for cardiac catheterization which showed serial 40 and
50% lesions in the LAD and also an 80% lesion in the distal RCA.
There were no complications post catheterization. It was
questionable whether these lesions were serious enough to account
for the patient's symptoms. The patient's medical regimen was
advanced and she has tolerated that well and has been symptom free
for the past 48 hours. She was discharged home in stable
condition. She will follow-up with Dr. Gruntz in one week. The
patient also had asymptomatic pyuria and bacteruria and was treated
for a presumed urinary tract infection with three days of oral
Bactrim.
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS: On discharge included diltiazem SR ,
120 mg po b.i.d.; Lopressor , 100 mg b.i.d.; Isordil ,
20 mg t.i.d.; aspirin , one q day.
EJ666/1399
CARA NEVA KENEKHAM , M.D. FJ1 LL6 D: 9/28/91
Batch: 3485 Report: E1785I6 T: 9/9/91
Dictated By: LOIDA GOLEBIOWSKI , VVX5