321590523 | PUO | 64755629 | | 4407097 | 10/4/2006 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/14/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: BERNAS , RUFUS MD
DATE OF ADMISSION: 10/14/2006
DATE OF INTERIM DICTATION: 1/7/2006
PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: Left hip fracture , right distal tibia
fracture status post fall.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 52-year-old male
with multiple medical problems including coronary artery disease
status post non ST segment elevation MI in August 2005 , status post
PTCA stenting in October of 2006 , history of renal transplantation
status post failure , now with end-stage renal disease on
hemodialysis , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension who presents on
10/14/2006 with a left intertrochanteric hip fracture after fall.
He states he
was in his usual state of
health until the day of presentation when he was walking outside
his house on the deck to take care of his dog and tripped and
fell on to his left side. He denied any preceding symptoms ,
shortness of breath , loss of consciousness , or dizziness.
Imaging upon presentation revealed a comminuted intertrochanteric
fracture of the left femur as well as a refracture and worsening
alignment of a previously nonhealing distal tib-fib fracture of
the right lower extremity.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease status post non-ST
segment elevation MI in August 2005 , s/p stenting
in August 2005 , most recent cath in October 2006. Peripheral
vascular disease , renal transplant for type 1 diabetes ,
living-related renal transplant in 1991 status post rejection and
failure in January 2005 , now end-stage renal disease on
hemodialysis. His dialysis is Tuesday , Thursday , Saturday. He
has had diabetes mellitus type 1 since age 6. He also has a
history of hypertension , hypothyroidism , PEA arrest in October
2006 in the setting of hypercalcemia , peripheral neuropathy , and
right lower extremity open reduction and internal fixation in
October 2006 for nonunion of a tibial fracture.
HOME MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 325 mg daily , PhosLo 1334 t.i.d. ,
enalapril 20 mg daily , gemfibrozil 600 mg b.i.d. , Dilaudid p.r.n.
pain , NPH 30 in the morning and 32 in the p.m. , levothyroxine 50
mcg daily , prednisone 10 mg q.a.m. , Neurontin 300 mg b.i.d. ,
Imdur 60 mg daily , Lipitor 80 mg daily , Nephrocaps one daily ,
Plavix 75 mg daily , Caltrate plus vitamin D one tab nightly ,
sevelamer 800 mg b.i.d. , omeprazole 20 mg daily , NovoLog sliding
scale as per patient , and Toprol 50 mg daily.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin which causes a rash.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with his wife. Former smoker.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Upon presentation , the patient's vital
signs 97.7 , 73 , 135/68 , 12 , and 97% on 2 L. Generally , he is in no
apparent distress , alert and oriented x3. Cardiovascular:
Regular rate and rhythm with a 2/6 systolic murmur at the left
upper sternal border. No S3 or S4. Lungs are clear to
auscultation anteriorly. His abdomen is nontender and
nondistended. The patient is obese. The patient's extremities
show 1+ peripheral edema , right greater than left. Right lower
extremity is bandaged. He has 1+ DPs bilaterally.
Neurologically , he is grossly intact.
His EKG upon presentation showed normal sinus rhythm at 73 ,
normal axis , normal intervals , no ST- or T-wave changes but
isolated T-wave inversions in leads III , which are new from
7/14/2006 with peak T waves , QRS of normal duration. His K at
that time was 6.7. Creatinine was 6.1. His white count on
10/14/2006 was 13.1 , 43.9 , and 309 , 000 , to complete a CBC. INR
was 1.
The impression at the time of presentation was a 53-year-old
male with multiple medical problems including coronary artery
disease status post recent revascularization in October of 2006 ,
peripheral vascular disease , renal transplant status post
failure , now on hemodialysis , diabetes , hypertension , and
hypothyroidism who presented with a left hip fracture and worsening of a
previous R distal tib/fib fx.
HOSPITAL COURSE: He was admitted to the orthopedic surgery
service and a preoperative evaluation was begun. On hospital day three ,
he suffered a non-ST segment elevation MI requiring urgent cardiac
catheterization. His EF at that time was noted to be 65%. Left heart
catheterization revealed a single-vessel coronary artery disease involving his
left circumflex with evidence of restenosis , and an angioplasty was
performed. The patient was transferred back to the floor hemodynamically
stable. He continued to undergo dialysis on his Tuesday , Thursday ,
Saturday schedule from the day of his catheterization until 10/16/2006 when he
was taken to the operating room for open reduction and internal fixation of
his left intertrochanteric hip fracture. For a complete summary ,
please refer to the operative note. His right tibial injury was
managed conservatively initially with splinting. On 10/20/2006 ,
the patient returned to the operating room where he underwent a
revision of his fixation of his right lower extremity with
removal of deep hardware and intramedullary rodding of his distal
tibia fracture. A VAC was placed across the lower part of the
incision. On 9/17/2006 , the VAC was changed on the floor and
placed on suction and was noted to be oozing steadily with a
eventual EBL of about 1 L within several hours. His systolic blood
pressures also droped into the 80s to 90s along with symptoms of
diaphoresis. Mr. Gensler was subsequently transferred to the 7D ICU for
management of significant bleeding from his open wound , relative tachycardia ,
hypotension , and diaphoresis , concerning for hemorrhage shock.
The patient at that time was on Plavix , aspirin , and Lovenox , and
it was thought that this combination certainly led to his oozing
during the VAC change. The patient was transfused several units
of blood after hematocrit dropped from 28 to 19 on the day of
transfer. The patient was transferred back to the floor in
stable condition within several days. The patient continued to receive
dialysis Tuesday , Thursday , and Saturday during this time as the
orthopedic surgery service continued wet-to-dry dressings of his
right lower extremity wound , which was open inferiorly. On
1/6/2006 , the A Triaded Health Cardiology Service was again
consulted regarding the safety of discontinuing the patient's
Plavix , aspirin , and/or Lovenox prior to taking the patient back
to the operating room. The service determined that his Plavix
could be stopped safely prior to surgery but should be started
postoperatively. The patient was continued with daily wet-to-dry
dressings until 10/10/2006 when he was taken back to the
operating room for medialization of his right ankle. His Plavix
had been discontinued on 6/18/2006 and was restarted on
postoperative day one. The patient continued to receive dialysis
during this time , which he tolerated well. His subcutaneous
heparin was restarted on 9/25/2006 .  However , the patient began
to ooze from his injection sites and his right lower extremity
wound and the subcutaneous heparin was subsequently discontinued.
Thus , the patient is maintained at the current time on aspirin
and Plavix.
Currently , by systems:
Neurologic: The patient is receiving 30 mg of methadone q.8h.
for pain as well as Dilaudid 0.2 to 0.4 q.3h. p.r.n. and
oxycodone 20 mg p.o. q.2h. p.r.n. pain. He is alert and oriented
x3 and is neurologically intact with the exception of decreased
sensation in his right lower extremity. Cardiovascularly , he has
been hemodynamically stable although his systolics often in the
90s after dialysis. He is being continued on an aspirin 325 mg
as well as Lopressor 12.5 mg q.i.d. , Imdur 60 mg daily , and
Plavix 75 mg daily. He has prolonged QT ranging from 400 to 500
and his frequent PVCs noted on telemetry. However , he has been
asymptomatic since his episode of hypotension requiring
readmission to the ICU.
Respiratory: The patient has been stable on room air since
transfer from the ICU and denies any pulmonary symptoms. GI , the
patient has had decreased p.o. intake and nutrition consultation
was ordered. Nutrition has been following the patient
recommending frappes and Boost , which the patient has been taking
minimally. The patient has been having bowel movements and his
abdomen is soft , nontender , and nondistended.
GU: The patient is followed by the renal service for dialysis on
Tuesday , Thursday , and Saturday. Currently on PhosLo 667 mg p.o.
t.i.d. , Nephrocaps , Caltrate. His sevelamer is
currently held. The patient makes minimal amounts of urine in
addition to his dialysis sessions.
ID: The patient has been maintained on vancomycin 1 g Tuesday ,
Thursday , Saturday after hemodialysis. He has been afebrile for
the past week. His current white count is 8.6. Hematologically ,
as mentioned previously , the patient presented on aspirin and
Plavix and Lovenox was added. However , due to his episode of
bleeding requiring ICU admission , there was concern regarding
over-anticoagulation. However , the three agents were continued
and the patient stabilized. Per the cardiology service , Plavix
was discontinued approximately one week preoperatively and
restarted one day postoperatively. Subcutaneous heparin was
added back to his regimen on postop day two. However , he began
oozing from his injection sites in his right lower extremity and
thus the subcutaneous heparin was discontinued. The patient's
hematocrit is currently 31.6.
Endocrine wise , the patient has been continued on his home dose
of prednisone which is 10 mg daily , he has also been continued on
NPH and NovoLog which have been titrated per recommendations from
the diabetes service. His wound on the right lower extremity is
granulating appropriately although there are areas of ecchymosis
and skin thickening and darkening around the incision. The
patient is currently receiving b.i.d. wet-to-dry dressings of the
right lower extremity. His right hip surgery incisions are
clean , dry , and intact with no signs of infection.
eScription document: 9-0063275 HFFocus
Dictated By: POLIVICK , HERTHA
Attending: BERNAS , RUFUS
Dictation ID 8015080
D: 1/23/06
T: 1/23/06