536815366 | PUO | 34000260 | | 793872 | 2/24/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 4/11/1993 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 9/13/1993
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: IDIOPATHIC CARDIOMYOPATHY.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 54 year old Hispanic
female with a history of idiopathic
dilated cardiomyopathy for the past ten years. Patient has been
managed medically , however , recently , the patient's heart failure
has progressed to the point where conventional therapy is unable to
sustain her. The patient was admitted in September 1993 with dyspnea and
chest pain. At that time , the patient ruled out for myocardial
infarction and was discharged home on exogenous oxygen therapy.
Patient returned shortly thereafter with shortness of breath and
was begun on intravenous Dobutamine. She was subsequently
discharged home after her heart failure resolved. Patient ,
however , returned a third time with similar complaints of shortness
of breath and dyspnea and remained in the hospital awaiting a heart
transplant. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient has a history of
non-Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus as well as a history of
treated tuberculosis. PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Patient has a
history of total abdominal hysterectomy and right
salpingo-oophorectomy. Patient has no known tobacco or ethanol
history. Catheterization on May demonstrated a pulmonary
capillary wedge pressure of 38 with a pulmonary artery pressure of
80 systolic/50 diastolic. Cardiac index was 1.4 and an echo
demonstrated severely dilated left ventricle with an ejection
fraction of between 25 and 30%. CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Lasix 120 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , Glucotrol 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Vasotec 10 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d. , and
two liters nasal cannula O2.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Patient was a sickly appearing female who
was short of breath. HEENT: Unremarkable.
NECK: Remarkable for jugular venous distention to the angle of the
jaw. CARDIAC: III/VI holosystolic murmur appreciated with an S3
gallop. ABDOMEN: Liver was 13 to 14 cm. Otherwise , the abdomen
was soft. EXTREMITIES: 2+ pitting edema to the mid shin.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: BUN was 24 , creatinine 1.2 , PT was 16.1 ,
PTT was 34 , white count was 8 , hematocrit
49% , and digoxin was 1.4. EKG showed a normal sinus rhythm at 110
with a left bundle-branch block pattern and first degree AV block.
Chest X-Ray revealed cardiomegaly and liver function tests were
grossly normal.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient underwent a heart transplant on October
without perioperative difficulty. The patient
was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit immediately
post-operatively and remained there for her first several days
post-operatively. The patient's early post-operative course was
complicated by right sided heart dysfunction and elevated PA
pressures. Echocardiogram demonstrated normal left ventricular
function. The patient ruled out for a myocardial infarction
post-operatively and was managed on Dobutamine and Inocor. As PA
pressures remained elevated , the patient was switched to Milrinone
and her other pressors were weaned off gradually. The patient had
chest tubes left in place for approximately twelve days
post-operatively at which time the chest tubes were discontinued.
Patient's Swan was removed on post-operative day ten and CVP
monitoring was used to estimate right heart function. The
patient's Milrinone was gradually weaned off and the patient's CVP
remained in the 12 to 16 mm range. The patient was subsequently
transferred to the floor where she did well. The patient was
biopsied twice prior to discharge , both times demonstrating no
rejection. Of note , the patient appeared to develop Cyclosporin
toxicity early in her post-operative course with rapidly rising
creatinine levels and elevated liver function tests. The patient
was placed on Trental 800 mg p.o. t.i.d. and subsequently given a
seven day course of OKT3 after which time the patient was restarted
on her Cyclosporin with no ill effect. The patient was noted to
have a left sided pleural effusion that was tapped approximately
two and a half weeks into the patient's post-operative period. 400
cc of pleural fluid was removed which grew no bacteria out. The
patient's effusion was followed by chest X-Ray and was noted again
to reaccumulate. Approximately one and a half weeks later , a chest
tube was placed with the recovery of approximately 700 cc of fluid.
This was done with ultrasound guidance. The chest tube remained in
place approximately five days and was subsequently removed. A
residual small left pneumothorax was noted. This pneumothorax was
unchanged over the ensuing three days after chest tube removal and
the patient was discharged home with a stable small left
pneumothorax.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Patient is discharged home on
Dapsone 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Cyclosporin 225 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , Imuran 25 mg p.o. q.d. , Magnesium Gluconate 1 gram q.i.d. ,
Procardia XL 90 mg p.o. q.d. , Trental 800 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,
Prednisone 30 mg p.o. q.d. , Humulin NPH 18 units subcutaneously
q.a.m. , Lasix 40 mg q.a.m. q.d. , K-Dur 40 mEq p.o. q.d. , and Serax
15 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for agitation. The patient is to
follow-up with the Transplant Clinic as well as the Endocrine
Clinic and will receive VNA nursing care at home for wound checks.
Dictated By: LATASHIA COSE , M.D. DK26
Attending: ISABELLE E. COLASAMTE , M.D. VA5  OP217/6483
Batch: 4209 Index No. ARUYK8817B D: 11/20/93
T: 3/26/93