618248223 | PUO | 12220761 | | 4498235 | 9/29/2005 12:00:00 AM | CELLULITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/22/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/26/2005
ATTENDING: VAJDA , FRANCISCO M.D.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Prepatellar bursitis versus prepatellar cellulitis with bursitis.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:
Peripheral vascular disease , diabetes , chronic renal
insufficiency , CAD , and history of sepsis from right lower
extremity cellulitis in the past.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Right lower extremity edema and pain in right knee.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 68-year-old male with severe PVD , diabetes mellitus ,
chronic kidney insufficiency , presents with increased right lower
extremity edema and pain progressing over four days. The patient
was recently admitted to an outside hospital for questionable
viral gastroenteritis and discharged four days ago. Since the
last admission , he was noted to have increased right lower
extremity pain and erythema , was sent home on levofloxacin as an
outpatient for presumed cellulitis. Actually , despite being on
levofloxacin , right lower extremity edema and pain increased over
four days and became more painful to walk. The patient had
subjective fevers , but none documented on record. The patient
with no severe pain over the right patellar. It hurts to flex
and/or bend the knee. Baseline right lower extremity is now much
worse than it was prior. The patient was without pain in calf or
thigh. There is no shortness of breath or chest pain. Wife
provides daily diabetic foot care , and he had recurrent
cellulitis of the right lower extremity in the past , but none in
the past year. No history of trauma. In the ED the patient with
small right knee effusion was tapped by ortho and fluid sent to
lab , it was bloody without any other growth at that time. The
patient was also given vancomycin in the ED prior to admission.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Includes PVD , peripheral vascular disease , diabetic neuropathy ,
diabetes mellitus type II , chronic renal insufficiency , CAD
status post CABG , history of GI bleed in the past , history of
sepsis from right lower extremity cellulitis in the past , status
post right femoral-peroneal bypass.
ALLERGIES:
No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Carbamazepine 100 mg b.i.d. , NovoLog 5 mg q. a.c. , Lipitor 80 mg
once a day , Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , Avandia 8 mg once a day ,
Prilosec 20 mg once a day , and NPH insulin 50 mg subcu b.i.d.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
He lives with his wife , has adult children.
FAMILY HISTORY:
Sister with diabetes mellitus and CAD.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
On admission , the patient was afebrile 97.5 , pulse of 84 ,
systolic blood pressure was noted to be 137 , respiratory rate 20 ,
and 95% on room air , was found to be hard of hearing , but
otherwise in no apparent distress. Lungs were CTAB with no
wheezes. Cardiac exam was regular rate and rhythm. S1 and S2.
No S3 or S4. JVP was difficult to assess and no audible murmurs ,
had truncal obesity on abdominal exam with ventral hernia.
Nontender and active bowel sounds. Extremities had edema two
times the size of the left lower extremity , 20 x 10 cm patch of
pink erythematous and induration of warmth over the right knee ,
exquisitely tender over the patellar with small area of
induration over the right patella. Nontender long joint lines ,
small effusions , and pain with passive range of motion over the
patellar area. Feet were clean without cracking , maceration , or
ulcers.
PERTINENT LABS ON ADMISSION:
Creatinine of 2.3 , BUN of 74 , glucose of 119 , sodium and
potassium of 136 and 4.3. White cell count was 8.7 with normal
differential , 78% polys , hematocrit 34.1 , and platelets 298 , 000.
INR was 1.0. ESR was 98. Uric acid was noted to be normal.
Synovial fluid did not show crystals and gram-stain was negative.
LENI's , right lower extremity did not show DVT above the right
knee.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Musculoskeletal/ID/Rheum: This is right knee prepatellar
bursitis versus cellulitis. The patient with plain film and
x-ray , which did not show any large prepatellar bursal effusion.
No other trauma or fracture to be seen on x-ray. The patient was
doing well in-house , however , the erythema and pain did not
respond to IV vancomycin and p.o. levofloxacin at renal dosing ,
and was thought by rheumatology who graciously consulted on this
patient to have a likely prepatellar bursitis. It is also
possible this patient had a cellulitis overlying the prepatellar
area , but there is no evidence of joint infection. Tap on
11/7/05 of the prepatellar bursal fluid showed no crystals , no
polynuclear cells , and no organisms were seen. Given this ,
again , prepatellar bursitis is the primary diagnosis and the pain
did slowly resolve while inhouse. The patient was able to bend
the knee and do weightbearing , although with pain prior to
discharge without any evidence of systemic infection or sepsis.
Blood cultures on admission were no growth. Prior to discharge ,
Rheumatology suggested starting colchicine 0.6 mg b.i.d. for two
days followed by 0.6 mg daily for two days , followed by every
other day 0.6 mg for one week. Follow up with A Triaded Health
as an outpatient , to follow up prepatellar bursitis and to check
uric acid , although normal on admission at this time. The
patient was stable without any signs of joint infection or
spreading fascial infection or worsening cellulitis. The
patient will also be started on Keflex despite the fact that he
did not respond to antibiotics , and this is likely a prepatellar
bursitis. In case , it is small component of cellulitis , the
patient will be kept on 10 days of p.o. Keflex at renal dose 500
mg b.i.d. as an outpatient and will be followed by A Triaded Health in the future.
2. Diabetes mellitus: The patient was initially not placed on
home NPH 50 mg b.i.d. and required increased NovoLog sliding
scale to 10 standing q.a.c. plus sliding scale. However , after
addition of 50 mg b.i.d. , NPH as per patient's home dose , the
patient's blood sugars ranged from 90s to 180s , which is far
improved from prior sugars in the 300s on admission. The patient
will continue on home dose NPH insulin with a NovoLog sliding
scale. Also will continue oral Avandia.
3. Cardiovascular: There were no active issues on this
admission.
4. Pain: The patient had approximately two to three times 25 mg
of oxycodone p.r.n. for pain. This will be continued for several
days as needed for pain on discharge.
5. Vascular: The patient with full LENI did not show any
thrombus in the right lower extremity on LENI.
6. Renal: The patient with chronic renal insufficiency , which
looks like acute on chronic given for unknown reasons , the
patient was initially placed on Lasix b.i.d. , but was taken down
to 80 mg once a day for lower extremity edema and swelling , given
creatinine of approximately 1.9 to 2.2. Discharge creatinine was
2.0. This will be followed up by A Triaded Health as an
outpatient. It seems that this is chronic renal insufficiency
from long-standing diabetes without a severe acute component.
The patient was on prophylactic Lovenox and Nexium while
in-house.
DISPOSITION:
Home on oral Keflex and colchicine as noted above.
DIET ON DISCHARGE:
Diabetic diet , 2 , 100 calorie per day , a low saturated fat , and
low-cholesterol diet. Walking , with weightbearing as tolerated.
Elevate legs and knees with prolonged sitting.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Include his home medications , fish oil capsule p.o. b.i.d. ,
Avandia 8 mg p.o. daily , carbamazepine 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Novolin sliding scale , Lipitor 80 mg p.o. daily , metoprolol
tartrate 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , will be on Keflex 500 mg b.i.d. x10
days , Lasix 80 mg p.o. daily from now on given renal
insufficiency , Avalide is being held until future notice , Novolin
5 to 10 units before breakfast and dinner , Prilosec OTC 20 mg
b.i.d. , colchicine as noted above 0.6 mg b.i.d. for two days , 0.6
mg daily for two days , followed by seven day of every other day ,
colchicine , oxycodone 5 mg q.4h. p.r.n. for pain , will receive
eight tablets for pain control and four tablets of Ativan 0.5 mg
p.r.n. for anxiety t.i.d. , again four pills only at the time of
discharge.
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:
The patient is stable.
eScription document: 9-7996646 EMSFocus transcriptionists
Dictated By: JULIUSSON , LAVELLE
Attending: VAJDA , FRANCISCO
Dictation ID 5776005
D: 4/30/05
T: 4/30/05