076954946 | PUO | 61732093 | | 3296510 | 1/21/2006 12:00:00 AM | CHF EXACERBATION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/26/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 7/14/2006
ATTENDING: KATCSMORAK , CARRI MD
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:
To Rehabilitation Hospital.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , amiodarone 200 mg p.o.
daily , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin NPH 7 units q.a.m. and
3 units q.p.m. subcutaneously , Atrovent HFA inhaler 2 puffs
inhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. for wheezing , magnesium gluconate sliding
scale p.o. daily , oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q. 4h. p.r.n. pain ,
senna tablets one to two tablets p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation ,
spironolactone 25 mg p.o. daily , Coumadin 1 mg p.o. every other
day , multivitamin therapeutic one tablet p.o. daily , Zocor 40 mg
p.o. daily , torsemide 100 mg p.o. daily , OxyContin 10 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , Cozaar 25 mg p.o. daily , Remeron 7.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. , and
aspartate insulin sliding scale.
DISCHARGE DIET:
Discharge diet is 2 liters fluid restrict. Liberal house diet.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:
Foot infection.
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Decompensated congestive heart failure , status post bilateral
knee amputation , status post BKA.
RETURN TO WORK:
Not applicable.
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENTS:
Please follow up with primary care physician , Dr. Lizabeth Warpool , at
Loburg Medical Center within one to two weeks.
Please follow up with primary cardiologist , Dr. Earnestine Fiermonte
within one month.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES:
None.
OTHER TREATMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
None.
BRIEF RESUME OF HOSPITAL COURSE:
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Shortness of breath.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
A 73-year-old man with a history of coronary artery disease
status post coronary artery bypass graft , ischemic
cardiomyopathy , valvular heart disease , known EF of 15-20% as of
9/19 , was admitted to the Pagham University Of from
Sollic Fredlaer Rehabilitation Hospital Of with signs and symptoms of
decompensated heart failure , and acute on chronic renal failure.
On 8/7/06 , he was admitted with a large left foot toe ulcer
that was nonhealing. Multiple surgeries were performed with
persistent nonhealing wounds: Left great toe amputation on
2/18/06 , which failed to heal despite SFA to perineal artery
bypassing the composite vein. Had a short CICU stay for
hypotension postoperatively , maintained on dobutamine. On
7/25/06 underwent debridement of left medial ulcer. On 10/7/06
transmetatarsal amputation , on 11/22/06 , debridement of
transmetatarsal amputation. On 9/22/06 received a left below
the knee amputation. His renal function had been normal prior to
the final surgery until 5/29/06 to 8/13/06 when his creatinine
rose from 1.3 to 2.2. He was discharged to acute rehabilitation
and was there noted to have this acute renal failure , which was
thought to be due to prerenal azotemia , but his creatinine at
this point had not changed much from 2.2 to 2.5 during his stay.
Diuretics were held at rehabilitation facility until two days
prior to admission. He was noted to have increased shortness of
breath. Patient denies any other symptoms up to that point
except occasional lightheadedness , depressed mood , and lack of
motivation. No orthopnea , uses 1 pillow regularly , denies
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and denies dyspnea on exertion , but
very limited movement.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for hypertension , GERD , hypercholesterolemia , CAD
status post MI in 1996 , received a CABG in 5/12 with a LIMA to
LAD , SVG to PDA , SVG to OM1 , and mitral valve annuloplasty.
Diabetes mellitus , insulin-dependent , status post bilateral below
the knee amputation , likely from diabetes related foot ulcers ,
history of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter , history of
sick sinus syndrome , history of second-degree heart block , AICD
placed 10/27 complicated by hematoma. History of admissions for
hyponatremia. Status post left SFA to perineal artery bypass to
incompetent pain in 10/14 .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily. Atrovent one to two puffs inhaled
q.i.d. p.r.n. for wheezing , Celexa 20 mg p.o. daily , Coumadin 2.5
mg p.o. daily , Diovan 80 mg p.o. daily , enteric-coated aspirin
325 mg p.o. daily , Lantus 25 units every day subcutaneous , Lasix
160 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lipitor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Lopressor 50 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , therapeutic multivitamin one tablet p.o. daily ,
solsite topical.
IMPRESSION:
On admission , a 73-year-old male with severe cardiomyopathy and
ejection fraction of 15% admitted for decompensated heart failure
in the setting of his diuretics being held due to an acute renal
failure. Review of chart at the time of admission showed renal
failure is actually present since the perioperative period of his
BKA. After being admitted to the cardiology service , he was
diuresed successfully to his dry weight , with a significant
improvement in his oxygen saturation , his creatinine , and venous
congestion.
Other active issues he was treated for include urinary tract
infection , diabetes mellitus , acute on chronic renal failure ,
depression.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. Cardiovascular: Ischemia: Known coronary artery disease
status post CABG x3 , admitted with troponin elevation likely due
to demand in the setting of heart failure for having his
diuretics held. This was noted to trend down post-diuresis. We
continued aspirin. Initially , we held his ACE inhibitor given
history of cough and his ARF , and ultimately restarted the
patient on ARB , after his creatinine had normalized. Statins had
been held until we were certain his liver function tests were
decreasing.
2. Cardiovascular pump: The patient remained in floor volume
overload on presentation , maintained on 2 grams salt daily , 2
liters fluid restriction diet with 1-2 liters per day goal
diuresis attained by using 100 mg IV torsemide b.i.d. with the
addition of 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide b.i.d. 30 minutes prior
to each torsemide dose , an average of two liter fluid negative.
Diuresis was affected over the course of a week , and his status
gradually improved. Spironolactone was initially held due to
high K but was re-added on 7/20/06 .  His jugular venous
distention dropped from initial presentation above the earlobes
at a 30-degree angle to a JVP of 6-7 cm at 30 degree angle on the
day of discharge. Two days prior to discharge , his creatinine
began to rise , suggesting prerenal azotemia secondary to over
diuresis and when his torsemide was reduced to 100 mg p.o. daily ,
hydrochlorothiazide was dropped from his regimen , patient's
creatinine began to drop again , and patient was able to maintain
even Ins and Outs of fluid for two days prior to discharge.
3. Cardiovascular rhythm: Patient is ventricularly paced on
symmetry for duration of hospitalization , history of atrial
fibrillation on Coumadin , was maintained on amiodarone during
this hospitalization.
4. Pulmonary: The patient with initial O2 dependence.
Continued inhaled ipratropium his home medication. After
diuresis , the patient was able to achieve oxygen saturation of
100% on room air.
5. Renal: Initial acute on chronic renal failure thought
secondary to volume overload and forward flow in the context of
decompensated congestive heart failure. His renal function
improved , as he was diuresed and his heart likely moved to more
useful part of the starling curve. Renal ultrasound was negative
for hydronephrosis as was test for urine eosinophils.
Hyponatremia was likely due to heart failure improved with
diuresis.
6. Heme: The patient maintained on Coumadin with an INR goal of
2-3. In order to achieve this goal , his Coumadin dose was
adjusted to mg p.o. every other day. He will be followed by
chemo and Coumadin service after discharge with weekly tests to
make sure that his INR is maintained within this range.
7. Endocrine. Diabetes mellitus , insulin-dependent , covered on
NPH q.a.m. and q.p.m. with aspartate sliding scale for duration
of hospitalization.
8. Psych: The patient was restarted on Celexa per PCP for
likely depressive mood response to recent bilateral knee
amputation. It is what is quite possible that patient's
depression precedes the bilateral knee amputation and informs
much of his overall care. The patient's PCP , Dr. Lizabeth D Warpool , aware of the situation and managing as outpatient. The
patient was also seen by the inpatient psychiatry consultation ,
and started on Remeron 7.5 mg p.o. daily in place of Celexa. He
is discharged on this medication. The patient is status post one
fall from the bed during the hospitalization. Head CT at that
time showed no evidence of bleed or trauma to the head to head.
Examination of back and extremities reveals no focal tenderness
or ecchymoses.
9. Infectious disease. The patient initially treated for
urinary tract infection with uncomplicated course with
ciprofloxacin.
10. Wound: Wound care nurse consulted for BKA wound and small
decubitus on his back , was treated with DuoDERM , BKA site healing
well.
11. Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: The patient remained on
cardiac , 2000 calorie diabetic diet , however , as it became
apparent that he was severely malnourished , his diet was
liberalized to allow for nutritional supplementation.
12. PPX: The patient maintained on subcutaneous heparin and
Nexium as DVT and GI prophylaxis during this hospitalization.
13. Code status , full code.
TO DO PLAN
1. Discharge the patient to rehab on current regimen. Patient
has been working with PT and OT during this hospitalization and
appears well positioned to take advantage of rehabilitation
facilities services.
2. Maintain new prescription of Remeron , follow up with
psychiatry to assess depressive disorder/adjustment disorder.
3. The patient has been off beta-blocker. PCP may choose to
start beta-blocker at a low-dose in the outpatient setting.
4. Fasciculations noted during hospitalization fine
fasciculations at hands in Niland Rawee Hospital .  Maybe secondary to
malnutrition and diaries is , but may merit further workup in an
outpatient context.
5. The patient had rising alkaline phosphatase during
hospitalization , CT of chest incidentally showed gallstone
present within the gallbladder , follow up LFTs in the outpatient
context and possible right upper quadrant ultrasound may merit
consideration and further outpatient workup of this patient. The
patient will follow up with Coumadin clinic given goal INR of
2.0-3.0. The patient's creatinine and BUN should be checked
along with electrolytes to make sure patient is doing well on
current maintenance diuretic schedule of 100 mg torsemide p.o.
daily and spironolactone.
CODE STATUS:
Full code.
DISCHARGE CONDITION:
Stable. Discharged to rehabilitation.
eScription document: 8-9441840 EMSSten Tel
CC: Earnestine M. Fiermonte M.D.
Ing Sa
CC: Lizabeth Warpool M.D.
KERNAN TO DAUTEDI UNIVERSITY OF OF
Ia Blvd.
Dictated By: DIVELBISS , LONNY
Attending: KATCSMORAK , CARRI
Dictation ID 0953106
D: 6/16/06
T: 6/16/06