773981468 | PUO | 11147158 | | 8841577 | 5/24/2006 12:00:00 AM | HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/3/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 8/13/2006
ATTENDING: TYACKE , MACKENZIE MD
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Shortness of breath.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 70-year-old woman with a
history of an ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction
of 35% and also a history of coronary artery disease status post
MI , insulin-dependent diabetes , peripheral vascular disease and
chronic renal insufficiency who presented with volume overloaded.
The patient was recently discharged after a 9-day admission from
6/10/2006 to 05 for a CHF exacerbation. During the
previous admission , she had been diuresed with a Lasix drip and
then started on amiodarone and Coumadin for a new paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation. After discharge , she presented to MMC
Cardiology Clinic on 1/16/2006 with a jugular venous pressure at
15 cm and severe bilateral lower extremity edema and a BNP of
2500. The assessment in clinic was that she had been under
diuresed in the previous admission and therefore she was directly
admitted to Totin Hospital And Clinic for reinitiation of aggressive
diuresis. Of note , the patient had recently changed from Lasix
to torsemide after the last discharge as her outpatient
medication. She endorsed worsened orthopnea , dyspnea on
exertion , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea as well as early satiety.
She denied any chest pain or other anginal equivalents.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 30%-35%.
2. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , newly on Coumadin and
amiodarone.
3. Coronary artery disease status post MI.
4. Peripheral vascular disease status post left tibial bypass
and fem-pop bypass.
5. Hypertension.
6. Hyperlipidemia.
7. Glaucoma.
8. Diabetes with retinopathy.
9. Osteoarthritis.
10. Anemia.
11. Obesity.
12. Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of
2.9 followed by MMC Renal Clinic.
MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1. Torsemide 100 mg q.a.m. and 50 mg q.p.m.
2. Ativan 0.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. anxiety.
3. Folate 1 mg p.o. daily.
4. Lipitor 80 mg p.o. at bedtime.
5. Lantus 18 units subcutaneously nightly
6. Coumadin 1 mg q.p.m.
7. Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
8. Procrit 40 , 000 units subcutaneously every other week.
9. Nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. chest pain.
10. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.
11. Vitamin B12 subcutaneous injections at clinic.
12. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily.
13. Iron 325 mg p.o. t.i.d.
14. Metolazone p.r.n.
ALLERGIES: Lisinopril and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married and lives at home with
her husband. She quit tobacco with rare alcohol use and no
drugs.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory. There is no family history of
cardiac disease.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , temperature was 98.9 , heart
rate 70 , blood pressure 104/50 , respiratory rate of 20 , oxygen
saturation 95% on room air. In general , the patient was
comfortable in no acute distress. HEENT , Pupils were equal ,
round , and reactive. Oropharynx was clear. The JVP was greater
than 15 cm , chest exam showed bilateral crackles at the bases
with bibasilar dullness well as well as right greater than left
base. Cardiovascular was regular rate and rhythm with a S3 and
no murmur. Abdomen soft , nontender , nondistended with a
nonpulsatile liver. Extremities showed 3+ pitting edema
bilaterally to the hips with bilateral changes of arterial and
venous insufficiency. Laboratory studies were significant for an
INR of 1.6 , BUN of 110 , creatinine 3 , white blood cell count of
11.7 and a hematocrit of 27.9.
EKG on admission was a normal sinus rhythm with evidence of a
previous anterior MI with lateral repolarization , ST and T wave
abnormalities , and possible LVH.
Chest x-ray showed bilateral effusions , left greater than right
with increased vascular markings and fluid in the right fissure ,
but no discrete infiltrates.
IMPRESSION: This is a 70-year-old woman with ischemic
cardiomyopathy with an EF of 35% , coronary artery disease status
post MI , insulin-dependent diabetes , peripheral vascular disease ,
chronic renal insufficiency who presented in volume overload
after a recent admission with insufficient diuresis.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Cardiovascular. In terms of pump , the patient was clearly in
gross volume overload from both the right sided and left-sided
failure on presentation. Her blood pressure was stable and she
had no evidence of severely decreased cardiac output or/and organ
perfusion. She was started on the Lasix drip at 10 mg per hour
and Zaroxolyn at 2.5 mg p.o. daily. Her Lopressor was held for a
decompensated heart failure. She initially diuresed well
overnight; however , on the second day her diuresis tapered off
and her Lasix drip was turned up to 20 mg per hour and the
Zaroxolyn was increased to b.i.d. She met her I&amp;O goal of
greater than 1 liter negative overnight the following night ,
however , a day later , she again had poor diuresis and the
Zaroxolyn was changed to Diuril. At this time , a repeat chest
x-ray showed a very little change in her bilateral pleural
effusions , so her diuresis up to this point was felt to be
insufficient. After the transition from Zaroxolyn to Diuril ,
which was given 250 mg IV b.i.d. , she was noted to have an
increase in creatinine from 2.9. gradually up to 3.2; however ,
remained stable for the next few days and the patient was able to
maintain good diuresis on this regimen without bump in her
creatinine.
On 4/25/2006 , she was noted to have greatly improved lower
extremity edema and that improved lung exam and she had met her
goal weight of less than 85 kilograms. Lasix drip was
discontinued in the afternoon on 4/25/2006 and she was restarted
on her home p.o. torsemide regimen of 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 50
mg p.o. q.p.m. for anticipated discharge home on 8/13/2006 .  The
Diuril was also discontinued. The patient was anticipated to be
stable on b.i.d. torsemide and p.o. on metolazone at home. Her
new dry weight on this admission was established at 85 kilograms
and this should be at a goal for diuresis should she require
admission in the future.
She will follow up with her MMC cardiologist for further
monitoring of her volume status after discharge. In terms of
rhythm , the patient had a new presentation of atrial fibrillation
on the prior admission and was started on amiodarone and Coumadin
at that time. She was in normal sinus rhythm on presentation at
this admission and remained in normal sinus rhythm throughout the
admission and was monitored on telemetry with no other events.
She was continued on her home dose of amiodarone and continued on
Coumadin; however despite the dose being decreased from her home
dose of 1 mg q.p.m. to a 0.5 mg q.p.m. , her INR continued to rise
and was eventually 3.5. Her Coumadin was discontinued. She was
recommended to be discharged off Coumadin and follow up with her
primary care provider during the week following discharge to
recheck her INR and restart her Coumadin when it falls below 2.5.
In terms of ischemia , the patient had no acute evidence of
ischemia on presentation. Denied any chest pain and had no
changes consistent with ischemia on her EKG. She was continued
on aspirin and Lipitor throughout the admission.
2. Renal: The patient has chronic renal insufficiency at
baseline. Her creatinine did increase from a baseline of 2.9 to
3.2. During this admission , however , remained stable after that
point. She continued on renally-dosed medications and actually
required repletion of both potassium and magnesium despite her
renal insufficiency throughout the admission in the setting of
aggressive diuresis. Her electrolytes were stable prior to
discharge home. She was followed by the MMC Renal Clinic with
whom she has had a previous conversations about the possibility
of hemodialysis in the future and she will see them shortly after
this discharge:
3. Pulmonary: The patient had dyspnea on exertion and bilateral
pleural effusions on her chest x-ray on admission. This was all
felt to be consistent with her heart failure. She did have no
signs or symptoms of any infectious etiology either on imaging or
as a part of her clinical picture. Her dyspnea on exertion and
her lung exam both improved with her aggressive diuresis.
4. Endocrine: The patient had erratic fingersticks early in the
admission with a very low fingerstick blood glucoses in the
morning initially , so her p.m. Lantus dose was decreased from 18
units to 16 units and the NovoLog sliding scale was started.
On 11/10/2006 , she was noted to continue to have lower sugars in
the morning , but routinely elevated sugars in the afternoon
greater than 200. She was started on q.a.c. NovoLog regimen.
However , on this regimen , she was found 1 morning to have a
fingerstick blood glucose of 33 and to be hypothermic with a
temperature of 94 taken rectally. This was thought to be
secondary to hypoglycemia which may have progressed over several
hours prior to assessment and her temperature returned to normal
at 98 after her blood glucose was aggressively repleted. It was
felt that the patient likely had decreased metabolism of her
injected insulin in the setting of worsening renal failure , so ,
her Lantus was decreased in accordance with a curbside
consultation with the diabetes management service. She will be
discharged home on a similar regimen to her home regimen simply
with a decreased Lantus dose down to 12 units nightly. She
should continue to monitor her fingerstick blood glucoses at
home. We were hesitant to change the types or timing of her
insulin during this hospitalization. I left that item to be
further managed by her primary care provider after discharge:
5. Hematologic: The patient has a chronic normocytic anemia
felt likely to be secondary to her chronic renal insufficiency.
Her iron studies were rechecked on this admission and her iron
studies were also normal. She was continued on Aranesp through
this hospitalization and she is on Procrit as an outpatient and
she will continue on that with further discussion with the MMC
Renal Clinic after she is discharged.
6. Fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: The patient was fluid
restricted to 2 liters of fluid per day p.o. and potassium and
magnesium were repleted as needed and she was maintained on a
cardiac diet. Prophylaxis was with Coumadin and Nexium.
DISCHARGE PLAN: The patient will be discharged to home with VNA
services for some home physical therapy. She will follow up with
her primary care provider Dr. Kimberly at MMC and also with the
MMC Cardiology Clinic and Renal Clinic. She should have her INR
checked within 4-5 days after discharge and her Coumadin
restarted when her INR is less than 2.5.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.
2. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily.
3. Lipitor 80 mg p.o. daily.
4. Folate 1 mg p.o. daily.
5. Lantus insulin 12 units subcutaneous nightly.
6. Ativan 0.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.
7. Metolazone 2.5 mg p.o. daily as needed for fluid retention as
directed by your physician.
8. Multivitamin one tablet p.o. daily.
9. Torsemide 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. at 50 mg p.o. q.p.m.
10. Vitamin B12.
11. Iron.
12. Procrit 40 , 000 units subcutaneously every other week.
eScription document: 7-7455764 RFFocus
Dictated By: YEAGLEY , MA
Attending: TYACKE , MACKENZIE
Dictation ID 8128407
D: 6/5/06
T: 4/7/06