426587352 | PUO | 72105976 | | 8848596 | 9/13/2005 12:00:00 AM | DEHYDRATION , NEUTROPENIC , LUNG CANCER | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/26/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/26/2005
ATTENDING: COHENS , ANGELINE VICKI MD
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Urosepsis.
LIST OF PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES: Diabetes , obesity , severe COPD ,
obstructive sleep apnea , hypercholesterolemia , anemia , colonic
polyps , uterine fibroids , gastrointestinal bled , neutropenic
enteritis , nonsmall cell lung cancer , chronic renal
insufficiency , status post appendectomy , gout , and
osteoarthritis.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: For further details please see
the chart. The patient is a 64-year-old female with multiple
medical problems including severe COPD , ( on home O2 2 liters
baseline sat below 90s ) , nonsmall cell lung cancer , diagnosed in
1999 status post multiple chemotherapy regimens , most recently
ALIMTA from 9/27/2005 to 09 , diabetes , obesity , and
chronic renal insufficiency , who was admitted to MICU on
11/26/2005 for neutropenia , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain ,
shortness of breath , requiring intubation , hypertension , prerenal
azotemia with a creatinine of 2.9; all of which are believed to
be secondary to sepsis.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Included Avapro , Lipitor , Decadron ,
ranitidine , Humalog , allopurinol , Alimta , Flonase , vitamin D ,
B12 , and Colace.
ALLERGIES: Bactrim , resulting in acute renal failure and
hyperkalemic , and penicillin resulting in anaphylaxis.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Pertinent for the fact that she lives at home.
She has a remote history of smoking , quit 15 years ago , and
denies alcohol.
FAMILY HISTORY: Pertinent for hypertension , stroke , thyroid
cancer , and cervical cancer.
FINDINGS ON ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Shows a temperature
of 98.9. pulse of 116 , and blood pressure 84/47 , and 96% on
ventilation. General exam: She is an obese female , intubated
and awake , motioning to take her tube out. Skin exam showed
scattered group petechial areas over the torso , abdomen , and
under the right breast. HEENT Exam shows pupils equal , round ,
and reactive and anicteric , with a normal JVP. Pulmonary exam
shows decreased mildly decreased breath sounds at the right base.
No crackles , increase in expiratory phase , few scattered rales.
Cardiac exam shows tachycardia otherwise regular rhythm. A 2/6
systolic murmur across precordium. Abdomen is soft , obese ,
positive bowel sounds , nontender , and nondistended with chronic
skin changes below the pannus. Extremities show trace to 1+
edema to the shins , with 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally.
Neurologic , the patient is awake; however , the exam is otherwise
difficult to perform secondary to the patient being intubated.
PERTINENT LABS ON ADMISSION: Show a white count of 0.74 with 46%
polys and 6% bands , resulting in an absolute neutrophil count of
340 , a hematocrit of 26.2 , and platelets of 37. Creatinine of
3.1 , a PTT of 83.5 and INR of 1.4 , and lactic acid of 1.4.
Chest x-ray on admission shows right infrahilar mass , bibasilar
opacities , with chronic alveolar disease versus new fusions , I
cannot rule out infiltrate. Abdominal CT shows small bowel wall
thickening and left-sided atelectasis versus pneumonia.
PROCEDURES: Status post intubation and extubation.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEMS:
1. Infectious disease: Ms. Balzano was admitted with fever and
hypertension , and I was concerned for sepsis , I initially thought
nosocomial pneumonia versus GI as the primary source. She
required intubation and pressors , and was started on vancomycin ,
Levaquin , and aztreonam along with Flagyl empirically. Her urine
grew Enterococcus and she was changed to Levaquin only on
6/21/2005 to treat an enterococcal UTI and possible nosocomial
pneumonia. An abdominal CT was obtained , which shows small bowel
wall thickening and injection of the SMA territory concerning for
a neutropenic enteritis. Surgery was consulted and she was
managed conservatively with antibiotics initially and then with
bowel rest. She is no longer neutropenic and was off Neupogen
over a week prior to discharge. She was afebrile over the last
week and will stay and finish the 14-day course of Levaquin for
UTI.
2. GI: Ms. Balzano was treated with bowel rest for her neutropenic
enteritis and once she was no longer neutropenic without
abdominal pain , she was started on clear liquid diet. However ,
she developed intermittent GI bleed , secondary to likely
sloughing of her mucosa status post neutropenic enteritis. GI
was consulted and she was again placed on bowel rest. Though ,
she has a history of colonic polyps , GI also felt that the
culprit of her GI bleed is mucosal sloughing as well. She
continued to have intermittent episodes of bloody diarrhea
whenever she was re challenged with p.o. intake. Her C-diff is
negative. Colonoscopy was deferred secondary to
thrombocytopenia. She required multiple red blood transfusions
to maintain her hematocrit greater than 26 , though she was never
hemodynamically unstable. Finally , after given sustained bowel
rest , her blood stools resolved , and she was able to tolerate
oral contrast and an abdominal CT on 9/6/2005 showed no small
bowel wall thickening or any other intraabdominal process causing
her symptoms. Her diet was advanced , and she was tolerating
regular diet at the time of discharge without problems.
3. COPD: On home O2 , typically requiring 2 liters with baseline
sat over 90s. Ms. Balzano was intubated on admission for increased
shortness of breath and hypoxia. She was extubated the following
day on 8/22/2005 .  She requires BiPAP nightly , now stable on 2
to 4 liters nasal cannula during the day.
4. Heme: On chemotherapy induced anemia with hematocrit drop on
admission to 21 from the baseline of around 26. She responded
well initially to three units of packed red blood cells over
10/18/2005 and 09 .  However , in the setting of her GI
bleed from a sloughing mucosa secondary to resolving neutropenic
enteritis and recent chemo , she required multiple further RBC
transfusions to keep her hematocrit greater than 30. She was
also thrombocytopenic , status post chemo and required multiple
platelet transfusions to keep her platelets greater than 30 , 000.
Hematology was consulted secondary to suboptimal busted platelet
levels status post transfusions , which was felt to be secondary
to poor marrow response in the setting of recent chemo ( workup
was negative for other possible causes refractory
thrombocytopenia , nystatin , allopurinol , were held given possible
worsening of her thrombocytopenia ). On discharge her hematocrit
and platelets were stable respectively at 29.8 and 46 , 000 and she
had not required a transfusion in greater than 24 hours prior to
discharge.
5. Acute on chronic renal failure: The patient's baseline
creatine is 1.7; however , on admission it was noted to be 3 ,
likely secondary to hypovolemia from vomiting and diarrhea ( FENa
was 0.22% ). Her creatinine is now back to baseline with
hydration. Her creatinine was 1.1 prior to discharge.
6. Nonsmall cell lung cancer: The patient is on Alimta started
for her neutropenia , which has since resolved. She will follow
with her oncologist Dr. Angeline Cohens for further therapy.
7. Endocrine: Because of her insulin-dependent diabetes , the
patient was placed on portland protocol while on the stress dose.
Steroids were discontinued on 6/21/2005 and she passed a
cortisol stimulation test on 6/21/2005 as well. She was changed
to standing insulin on 6/21/2005 and her Lantus was up titrated
along with sliding scale insulin to maintain blood sugars in the
80s to 120s. She will return home on her home regimen.
8. FEN: TPN was started on 10/4/2005 , given her bowel rest for
possible neutropenic enteritis. She restarted p.o. intake on
10/16/2005 and tolerated advancement to diabetic diet , and she
was weaned off her TPN prior to discharge.
CONSULTANTS: General Surgery , Hematology , and Gastroenterology.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT DISCHARGE: Vital signs: T max 98 , blood
pressure 120/60 , pulse 88 , and respirations 20 sating at 95% on
3.5 liters of oxygen. General exam shows an obese female resting
and in no acute distress. Nasal cannula in place. HEENT Exam
was normocephalic , atraumatic. Pulmonary exam showed decreased
air entry , decreased breath sounds , but otherwise no obvious
wheezes or rhonchi. Cardiovascular exam shows regular rate and
rhythm , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops , but decreased heart sounds.
Abdominal exam shows an obese abdomen , nontender , nondistended ,
positive bowel sounds. Extremities show 1 to 2+ edema
bilaterally to the knee. Skin exam shows a area where left
internal jugular line was removed and the site is intact and
dressed. Improved erythema in her intertriginous areas.
Neurologic exam shows the patient is alert and oriented x3
without any focal neurologic deficits.
The patient was discharged in stable condition and she will
follow up with Dr. Angeline Cohens in one week.
The patient is full code.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 to 1000 mg p.o. q. 6h p.r.n.
pain , headache , if fever is greater than 101 , Peridex mouth wash
10 mL twice a day , nystatin mouth wash 10 mL swish and swallow 4
x day as needed , oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q. 6h p.r.n. pain ,
simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. gaseousness , trazodone 25 mg
p.o. at bedtime , miconazole nitrate 2% powder topical b.i.d. to
areas between skin folds including under the right breast , Nexium
20 mg p.o. daily , Lantus 30 mg subcutaneous daily , DuoNeb 3/0.5
mg Nebs q. 3 h. p.r.n. shortness of breath , aspart 4 units before
each meal subcutaneously , folate 3 mg p.o. daily , Avapro 150 mg
p.o. daily , meclizine 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Combivent 2 puffs
inhaled q.i.d. , vitamin D 125 0.25 mcg p.o. daily.
eScription document: 6-5119037 AFFocus
Dictated By: WOLFLEY , LUCRETIA
Attending: COHENS , ANGELINE VICKI
Dictation ID 5620294
D: 7/16/05
T: 2/16/05