045911026 | PUO | 32796229 | | 8269616 | 3/19/2003 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/19/2003 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 1/25/2003
ATTENDING: DENISHA MCRORIE MD , PHD
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Shortness of breath.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Kington is an 80-year-old woman
with known history of congestive heart failure and flash
pulmonary edema who presents with gradually increasing shortness
of breath for 2 weeks. Patient denies any chest pain , nausea ,
vomiting , palpitations or syncope. She does acknowledge sitting
orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea for approximately 48
hours before admission , no lower extremity edema. She denies any
changes in diet or changes in medical adherence. She states her
weight has been about constant at 180 pounds on her home scale.
She does note that she has poor exercise tolerance at baseline
but even now unable to perform activities of daily living for 48
hours , so she came to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of Emergency Department with her
daughter. She was found to be hypertensive , hypoxic with
clinical and chest radiographic evidence of congestive heart
failure. She was treated with oxygen , IV Lasix and nitro-paced
in the ER and admitted for further treatment of her CHF
exacerbation. Her physical exam revealed a heart rate of 52
beats per minute , respiratory rate of 20 , blood pressure of
176/74 , and she was satting 97% on 4 L of oxygen. The patient
was in no acute distress , she is pleasant , a little overweight ,
alert and oriented times person , place and time. Her jugular
venous pressure was approximately 12 cm of water. She did have
pulses parvus et tardus , no Kussmaul sign. She had rales
one-half way up the pulmonary fields bilaterally. Her heart was
regular rate and rhythm , bradycardic. There was a 3/6 systolic
murmur with a slurred S2. Her abdomen was benign. She had no
lower extremity edema. She had cool extremities and neurologic
exam , other than patient being alert and oriented , was nonfocal
with no motor deficits.
LABS ON ADMISSION: Revealed a sodium of 142 , potassium 4.2 ,
chloride 105 , bicarb 26 , BUN 31 , a creatinine 1.9 , a glucose of
152. A white count within normal limits , a hematocrit of 41.8 , a
platelet count of 289 , calcium 8.8. Her coags revealed a PTT of
32.7 , an INR of 3.2 , her creatine kinase was 41 , her MB fraction
was 1.9 , her troponin was negative. Her BNP , brain natriuretic
peptide , was 885. Her chest x-ray was consistent with pulmonary
edema. Her EKG showed sinus bradycardia at
48 beats/minute. No significant ST or T-wave abnormalities. No
significant from change from 1/8 .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Patient has known aortic stenosis with an
AVA of 1.0. She has coronary artery disease status post acute MI
in 2001 , status post two-vessel CABG , she had the left internal
mammary to the LAD and a saphenous vein graft to the OM-2. She
has atrial fibrillation , for that she is on amiodarone and
Coumadin. She has diabetes mellitus. She has
hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , peripheral vascular disease ,
bladder cancer status post resection.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Amiodarone 300 mg each day.
2. Aspirin 81 mg each day.
3. Lasix 120 mg by mouth twice a day.
4. Zestril 40 mg po each day.
5. Zocor 40 mg p.o. every night before bedtime.
6. Niferex 150 mg twice a day.
7. Insulin NPH 48 units in the morning and 4 units in the
evening.
8. Levoxyl 25 mcg each day.
9. Coumadin 2.5 mg on Monday , Wednesday and Friday , and 3 mg on
Tuesday , Thursday , Saturday , Sunday.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She denied all vises , such as tobacco , alcohol or
drugs. She lives with her daughter , Arone .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As in HPI , no fever , chills , rash , medications
changes or urinary symptoms.
ASSESSMENT ON ADMISSION: She was an 80-year-old woman with known
coronary artery disease here with a chief complaint of worsening
shortness of breath consistent with congestive heart failure
exacerbation most likely left-sided diastolic dysfunction. There
was no clear etiology , however , dietary or medication issues were
not likely given the patient's excellent awareness and
involvement in her care. The suspicion was that the patient may
have had increasing blood hypertension out of control , increasing
oxygen demand and creating diastolic function and pulmonary
edema. The role of her aortic valve was unclear , however , there
may have been gradual progression and renal artery stenosis
cannot be rule out as an etiology.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Cardiovascular: In terms of her cardiovascular system , she
was diuresed with IV Lasix and her electrolytes were followed
closely. She came in with a weight of 84.7 kg and left with a
weight of 83.7 kg. For two days in the middle she was diuresed
with IV Lasix
120 mg b.i.d. and she was converted to oral Lasix and actually
continued her diuresis , in fact after pacemaker placement , which
will be noted below , she may have actually continued to urinate
even more so on the last day of her admission. Her blood
pressure was stable throughout her stay , in the low 100s ,
consistently below 150 systolic and above 100 systolic.
Rhythm: In terms of her rhythm , she was found at several points
throughout her stay in the first several days to have bradycardia
consistent with junctional rhythm and because of her atrial
fibrillation treated with amiodarone; it was thought she would
benefit from a pacemaker also because of her beta-blocker. So , a
pacemaker was placed on 6/21/2003 without complications. The
pacemaker was a dual-chamber PPM. Her INR before it was placed
was 1.7 , and there was some oozing from the site , however , her
hematocrit was stable and her hemodynamics were stable for 24
hours after the procedure. Electrophysiologists analyzed the
device and found that it was working properly. She is scheduled
for follow up with Dr. Brant on 4/13/2003 at 9:40 in the
morning. She has been advised to limit her driving until that
appointment. She has also been advised that she will not be able
to have an MRI in the future. She will be discharged on Keflex
( cephalexin ) 250 mg p.o. 4 times a day for 3 days on discharge
for her pacemaker and if she has any problems at all with her
pacemaker she should call Dr. Brant at
telephone # ( 096 ) 685-9419 , ayjxy # 15546.
2. Pulmonary: The patient had PFTs done in 9/18 which showed
an FVC of 73% of predicted , FEV1 of 77% of predicted , and FEV1 to
FVC ratio of 108% , and FEF 25/75 of 80% , a TLC of 50% of
predicted , an SVC of 73% of predicted , a residual volume of 40%
of predicted , and an RV/TLC of 72% of predicted. Her DLCO
uncorrected was 44%; her DLCO corrected was 44%. During her
stay , patient had low O2 saturations at rest ranging from the
high 80s to the low 90s , but often below 88% and on exertion
consistently in the mid-80% range , not depending on where the
probe was placed. She was unable to be weaned from the oxygen
and will be sent home on oxygen. She should be followed up with
a CT of the chest. A CT of the chest was done on this admission ,
however , it was consistent with CHF and other things could not be
ruled out. Of note , on the chest CT there were found to be liver
lesions which will be commented on below. The patient should
also be worked up for her pulmonary issues.
3. Radiology: The patient had this chest CT which showed
multifocal bilateral ground-glass opacities in the lungs , diffuse
haziness , some septal thickening with slight basil predominance ,
multiple borderline mediastinal nodes in the anterior
mediastinum , an AP window region with the largest node on image
21 measuring 1.3 x 2 cm , there were extensive vascular
calcifications , cardiomegaly with multi-chamber enlargement and
particularly dense coronary calcifications , trace right and left
pleural effusions. Visualized organs of the upper abdomen
demonstrate multiple ill-defined low attenuation foci in the
liver but no other abnormality. Review of bone window shows
extensive thoracic degenerative change , sternal wires and
epicardial pacer leads. The lung findings were consistent with
cardiomegaly and CHF , but could not rule out other diagnostic
possibilities including atypical pneumonia , hypersensitivity ,
pulmonary hemorrhage or less likely lymphangitic tumor. In order
to workup the liver mass , an ultrasound of the abdomen was
attained. The liver showed a mass 2.9 x 2.8 x 2.2 cm , it was
hyperechoic in the posterior segment of the right lobe of the
liver corresponding to the dominant mass seen in the CT of
7/21/203 and 11 , gallbladder was normal with no stones ,
the biliary tree was normal , as were the right kidney and left
kidney , pancreas , although it was poorly visualized. The spleen
was normal , the aorta was normal , pleural effusion was noted on
the left which was small and prominent hepatic veins were noted.
The radiologist's impression was that the ectogenic mass on the
right lower lobe of the kidney corresponded in the location of
the mass reported on prior CTs , may be a hemangioma or other
ectogenic masses which could not be excluded and he noted that
the patient could not hold her breath sufficiently well to
evaluate the mass with Doppler. If indicated , the PMD should
either get a nuclear scan , CT , the radiologist suggested MRI but
that is now impossible given the pacemaker , for confirmation and
further evaluation. Also , it was noted that she had prominent
hepatic veins possibly due to the right heart failure.
OTHER ISSUES:
4. Endocrine: The patient was continued on her Levoxyl 25 and
her home dose of insulin with good blood sugar controls generally
below fingerstick of 200.
5. Heme: The patient was continued on her Niferex. Her
hematocrit was stable throughout her stay with her admission
hematocrit being 41.8 and discharge hematocrit being 38.8. Her
white count also was not elevated. She is discharged with a
white count of 6.8. Her INR on admission was 3.2 , her Coumadin
was held and 1 mg of vitamin K was given before her procedure.
Her INR on the day of the procedure , 6/21/2003 , was 1.7 and on
discharge it was 1.3. She will be reinstituted on her same
Coumadin level , to follow up with Dr. Mankoski and to have her
Coumadin level checked on 5/25/2003 and be followed as she was.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: As admission medicines except #1 , she will
be taking cephalexin for 3 days and that is the only difference.
Her primary care doctor can consider can titrating her CHF
medicines and/or her hypertension medicines.
eScription document: 0-1128036 LMS
CC: Denisha Mcrorie
MMC
Dictated By: SUGIMOTO , ARDELL
Attending: MCRORIE , DENISHA
Dictation ID 5295868
D: 8/23/03
T: 8/23/03