015428741 | PUO | 26040636 | | 315039 | 10/13/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/28/1992 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 11/6/1992
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: STATUS POST TRANSIENT ISCHEMIC ATTACK
COMPLICATED BY A LONG HISTORY OF VERTIGO.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient was in her usual state of
health until the day of admission when
she had sudden onset of increased vertigo , dizziness , and near
syncope as well as left leg weakness and dysarthria. She had a
mild frontal headache , no palpitations , no chest pain , and no
shortness of breath. These symptoms lasted two to three hours with
slow gradual improvement. She phoned her CHH doctor who referred
her to Pagham University Of .  On admission , she complained
of no residual symptoms. She had no visual changes , no amaurosis ,
no paresthesias or numbness , and was feeling at her baseline. Her
history , of pertinence , in 1988 , she had a syncopal episode. A
Holter at that time revealed some atrial fibrillation and
non-sustained ventricular tachycardia for which she was started on
Atenolol. In 1990 , she had a villous adenoma diagnosed and
underwent an abdominoperineal resection complicated by
post-operative atrial fibrillation. She ruled out for myocardial
infarction at that time. For the past year , she has described
intermittent episodes of dizziness , so called room spinning , and
fatigue lasting for a few minutes occurring only once a month. She
has no other significant past medical history besides hypertension.
ALLERGIES: She has no known drug allergies. She is a non-smoker
and non-drinker. She is a Mexican speaking woman who lives alone
with a number of family members nearby. CURRENT MEDICATIONS: She
was on Atenolol 50 mg q.d.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was a pleasant Mexican speaking elderly
woman in no acute distress. Vital signs
showed her to be afebrile , blood pressure 160/80 lying down , 160/80
sitting up , pulse 70 lying down with pulse 76 sitting , and
respiratory rate 16. HEENT: Examination showed normal cranium ,
atraumatic , extraocular movements intact , and pupils equal , round ,
and reactive to light. She had bilateral cataracts detected and
her oropharynx was clear and within normal limits. NECK: She had
no jugular venous distention , neck was supple , she had full range
of motion , and her carotids were 1+ bilaterally with good upstroke.
No bruits were appreciated. LUNGS: Clear bilaterally. No spinal
or costovertebral angle tenderness appreciate. CARDIAC:
Examination showed rate and rhythm were regular , S1 and S2 , an S4
was appreciated , and no S3 with a I/VI systolic ejection murmur.
ABDOMEN: She had a colostomy , her abdomen was soft and non-tender ,
positive bowel sounds , and no masses. EXTREMITIES: No clubbing ,
cyanosis , or edema. No rashes were appreciated. NEUROLOGICAL:
Examination was non-focal. She was alert and oriented times three
and cranial nerves II-XII were within normal limits. Motor
examination showed 5/5 strength with no pronator drift and sensory
examination was grossly within normal limits. Deep tendon reflexes
were 1+ bilaterally and symmetric with downgoing toes and
finger-to-nose was within normal limits.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Sodium 140 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 107 ,
bicarbonate 22 , BUN 28 , creatinine 1.2 ,
and glucose 123. Hematocrit was 38.2% , white count 11.2 with a
normal differential , and platelets were 291. PT was 12.9 and PTT
was 24.3. Admission CK was 50. Urinalysis revealed 60-80 white
blood cells , no red blood cells , and 1+ squamous epithelium in the
sediment. Portable chest X-Ray was within normal limits except for
a tortuous aorta and admission EKG showed sinus bradycardia at 58 ,
intervals 0.18/0.09/0.44 , an axis of negative 21 degrees , there was
evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy by voltage criteria , and a
flipped T wave in III which was new compared with an EKG of February
1990. There were no acute ST changes. Head CT on admission
revealed an old lacune in the right internal capsule , some
paraventricular white matter low density changes with evidence of a
lacunar infarct in her right cerebellum which was of indeterminant
age.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The impression on admission was that this was a
75 year old white female with a history of
hypertension and a history of atrial fibrillation , non-sustained ,
who presents with a two to three hour episode of vertigo and left
sided weakness which spontaneously resolved. She was admitted for
further evaluation of this transient ischemic attack thought to be
due either a vertebovascular insufficiency syndrome , anterior
circulation , carotid stenosis , or an embolus from a cardiac source.
Neurology was consulted and , in addition , she was entered on a rule
out protocol for a myocardial infarction. Her abnormal urinalysis
was also of concern despite her lack of symptoms and she was
afebrile. Repeat urinalysis was ordered and urine was sent for
culture and sensitivity. Hospital course over the next few days ,
the patient remained completely asymptomatic except for an
occasional complaint of mild palpitations , occasional vertigo , and
occasional frontal headache. She was started on Coumadin on
hospital day number two for which she entered therapeutic range by
hospital day number four. On hospital day number two , she had a
Holter placed which showed normal sinus rhythm for 24 hours except
for one five-beat run of ventricular tachycardia and two episodes
of atrial fibrillation/flutter , the longest lasting thirteen beats.
On hospital day number two , she had an echocardiogram which showed
concentric left ventricular hypertrophy without evidence of
thrombus or valvular disease. On hospital day number four , she had
a carotid non-invasive study which revealed completely patent
carotid arteries without evidence of stenosis or atherosclerotic
lesions. On hospital day number five , she had a magnetic resonance
imaging of her head with angiogram , the results of which were
pending at the time of discharge. After being hospitalized for
five days , the patient was completely stable in therapeutic range
on Coumadin without focal neurologic findings and without obvious
source of her transient ischemic attack beyond a mild transient
arrhythmia. Therefore , she was discharged with instructions to
follow-up with her regular CHH physician for continued monitoring
of her Coumadin dosing and PT levels as well as long-term
instructions for follow-up care.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 50 mg q.d. and
Coumadin 5 mg q.h.s.
BY745/7320
DESIRAE MARCOTT , M.D. RG26 D: 10/10/92
Batch: 5812 Report: U6594M3 T: 3/3/92
Dictated By: DEJA KINTOPP , M.S.
cc: 1. HERMINA T. TUOMALA , M.D.