058204568 | PUO | 03295339 | | 5744657 | 6/12/2006 12:00:00 AM | PERIPHERAL ARTERY DISEASE , CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE , CHRONIC RENAL FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/7/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/1/2006
ATTENDING: KUSH , QUINN JAKE MD
This is an interim dictation from 7/3/06 through 04 while
the patient was on the General Medicine Service.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
Renal: The patient has chronic kidney disease likely due to her
diabetes mellitus. The patient's postoperative course was
significant for contrast induced oliguric acute renal failure. A
renal consult was obtained on 2/6/06 and the patient was seen
by Dr. Ahlborn to evaluate her acute on chronic renal failure.
Dr. Ahlborn that her acute renal failure may be due to chronic
kidney disease from renovascular disease or possibly due to
interstitial nephritis in the setting of a drug allergy. The
patient was also seen by Dr. Pelosi , Johnsie Michelina Adriene T.
from the Nephrology Department while she was an inpatient. After
consideration of possibilities causing her acute renal failure ,
it was thought that her acute renal failure was most likely due
to cholesterol emboli syndrome given her eosinophilia , stepwise
progression of renal impairment and her chronic course. The
patient will need to be followed by a nephrologist as an
outpatient. In addition ,
the patient has known renal artery stenosis that may have
contributed to her acute renal failure and she did have a
possible drug allergy to diuril and perhaps a component of her
renal failure was also due to acute interstitial nephritis. On
1/27/06 , the patient developed gross hematuria. At this time ,
the urinalysis showed red blood cells but no evidence for
ATN. This gross hematuria was in the setting of a
worsened coagulopathy. She had a renal ultrasound at that time
that was negative for renal obstruction. Gradually with
resolution of her coagulopathy , the patient's urine output
increased and her creatinine improved with supportive measures
alone. The patient did have gradual improvement in her urine
output and her creatinine decreased to 2.8 prior to discharge.
The patient is currently off diuretics at this time. Daily
weights should be checked and if her weight increases by more
than 3 pounds Dr. Kush should be notified. The patient was also
started on calcitriol given elevation of parathyroid hormone.
Cardiovascular: Rate and rhythm: The patient has a history of
atrial fibrillation with a slow ventricular response. The
patient was started on metoprolol 12.5 mg p.o. q.6 h. for rate
control , however , this dose was decreased to 12.5 mg p.o. twice a
day , given some bradycardia on her telemetry. The patient was
also started on Flecainide 75 mg p.o. q.12 h. She will continue
on these two medications upon discharge.
Congestive heart failure: The patient had evidence for
congestive heart failure and pulmonary hypertension during this
hospitalization. The patient did become volume overloaded on
physical examination with an oxygen requirement , elevation of her
JVP and shortness of breath. She was diuresed with Lasix during
her postoperative course. The patient was transferred to the
medical Service on 2/10/06 for management of her renal failure
and volume overload. The patient did undergo a trial of renally
dosed dopamine to see if this medication improved her cardiac
output and renal function. The patient showed no improvement on
this medication and it was discontinued after a short trial. The
patient's diuresis was discontinued prior to discharge as the
patient did have acute worsening of her renal function , which may
have been related to over aggressive diuresis. The patient was
instead started on spironolactone for management of her
congestive heart failure. As stated above , she should have daily
weights checked.
Ischemia: The patient has no history of coronary artery disease.
She was maintained on aspirin , statin and a beta-blocker during
the admission.
Hematology: The patient was started on iron supplementation for
her anemia in the setting of chronic kidney disease. The
patient's Coumadin was held briefly in the setting of a
coagulopathy that she developed on 1/27/06 .  The patient was
evaluated by the Hematology Service and was seen by Dr. Staffeld and
Dr. Hurni from the Hematology Service for workup of her
coagulopathy. The patient had elevation of her INR to 5.8 and a
slight reduction in her hematocrit to 25 , as well as elevation of
her PTT to 97. Workup included factor 7 level , mixing study ,
anticardiolipin antibody , lupus anticoagulant , Von Willebrand's
panel , hepatitis B and C testing as well as complement levels.
The patient received one unit of packed red blood cells as well
as 2 units of FFP on 1/27/06 as well as vitamin K with much
improvement in her coagulopathy and increase in her hematocrit to
about 29. The patient should not receive any
heparin flushes. The patient showed no evidence for DIC or
hemolysis. Her coagulopathy was most likely thought to be due to
residual Coumadin with factor deficiency in the setting of her
decreased renal clearance. At this time , the results of the
inhibitor screen are pending and should be followed up as an
outpatient. The patient was restarted on Coumadin prior to
discharge. Her INR goal is 2 to 3 and her Coumadin dosing should
be monitored by Dr. Kush . Her current Coumadin dose is 1 mg
p.o. once every evening and her most recent INR 1.2. The patient
will follow up with Hematology as an outpatient.
Infectious Disease: The patient had a wound culture that grew
pseudomonas for which she was briefly treated with a course of
ceftazidime. The patient completed a course of ceftazidime and
remained afebrile off antibiotics with no signs of active
infection. A wound care consult was obtained for the patient's
decubitus ulcer. She should have DuoDERM dressing applied every
three days to her ulcer.
Pulmonary: The patient continues to have an oxygen requirement
despite diuresis. She did not show clinical signs of pneumonia.
Her oxygen requirement is thought to be due to atelectasis ,
deconditioning , as well as her known congestive heart failure and
likely pulmonary hypertension. She requires supplemental oxygen
at 2 liters nasal cannula to maintain oxygen saturations in the
mid 90s. This should be continued at her rehabilitation.
Endocrine: The patient has a history of diabetes and was
followed by the Diabetes Nursing Service during her stay. She
was on Avandia during the admission in addition to Lantus and
NovoLog before meals. Upon discharge , the patient will be on
Avandia 4 mg p.o. every noon as well as NovoLog 4 units
subcutaneous before every meals in addition to a NovoLog sliding
scale. The patient was also started on thyroid supplementation
and will be on Synthroid as an outpatient.
Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: The patient had hyponatremia
thought to be in the setting of volume overload and total body
water excess. This improved somewhat with diuresis. In
addition , the patient developed dysphagia with liquids during her
hospitalization. She was evaluated by the Speech and Swallow
Service and had evidence of aspiration on bedside swallow
examination as well as video swallow examination. The patient
was also evaluated by the ENT Service and was seen by Dr.
Oshima on 11/26/06 .  On laryngoscopy , she was found to have a
left vocal cord paralysis. She underwent MRI imaging of her neck
and chest. She did not have any evidence of mediastinal mass and
no abnormalities of the recurrent laryngeal nerve were seen.
Gradually , the patient has had some mild improvement in her
hoarseness and dysphagia. She benefits from turning her head to
the left with each swallow to minimize the risk of aspiration.
The patient was also followed by the Nutrition Service throughout
her hospital stay.
Vascular: The patient is status post left femoral distal bypass
on 8/21/06 .  The patient continued to be followed by the
Vascular Surgery Service during her hospitalization. She should
have three t.i.d. wet-to-dry dressings applied to her left lower
extremity up to her thigh daily. She will follow up in Vascular
Clinic with Dr. Youngberg in two weeks upon discharge.
Allergy: The patient had a DIURIL induced drug rash. She showed
no signs of mucous membrane involvement and no signs of
Stevens-Johnson syndrome.
Prophylaxis: The patient was placed on a PPI as well as her
Coumadin.
Disposition: The patient was followed by the Physical Therapy
Service while an inpatient and will benefit from inpatient
rehabilitation.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.8h. as needed for
pain , aspirin 81 mg p.o. once a day , allopurinol 100 mg p.o. once
a day , amitriptyline 10 mg p.o. twice a day , Plavix 75 mg p.o.
once a day , Aranesp 40 mcg subcutaneous q. week , Benadryl 25 mg
p.o. every six hours as needed for itching , Colace 100 mg p.o.
twice a day , flecainide 75 mg p.o. q.12h. , NovoLog sliding scale
before meals and every evening - if fingerstick less than 125
give zero units , if fingerstick 125-150 give 2 units , if
fingerstick 151-200 give 3 units , if fingerstick 201-250 give 4
units , if fingerstick 251-300 then give 6 units , if fingerstick
301-350 then give 8 units , if fingerstick 351-400 then give 10
units and call physician if fingerstick greater than 400 or less
than 70 , NovoLog 40 units subcutaneous before meals - please
hold if n.p.o. , levothyroxine 75 mcg p.o. once daily , milk of
magnesia 30 mL p.o. daily as needed for constipation , metoprolol
12.5 mg p.o. q.6h. -hold if systolic blood pressure less than 90
or heart rate less than 55-to be discontinued after one day. The patient will
then be started on Nadolol 20 mg po qday , Niferex 150 mg p.o.
twice a day , Protonix 40 mg p.o. once a day , Avandia 4 mg p.o. to be given at
noon daily - please hold if n.p.o. , Sarna topical daily , Zocor 20
mg p.o. at bedtime , Coumadin 1 mg p.o. once every evening , Tucks
PR daily , spironolactone 25 mg p.o. once daily , calcitriol 0.25
mcg p.o. once daily.
FOLLOW UP APPOINTMENTS:
1. Dr. Youngberg , 590-882-9425 , Pagham University Of
Vascular Surgery in two weeks.
2. Dr. Kush , 865-556-8789 in two weeks.
3. Dr. Hurni , 334-911-6817 , Hematology at Totin Hospital And Clinic in
one month.
4. Nephrologist follow up to be arranged
DIET: Mechanical soft honey consistency. Advance as tolerated.
ADA 2000 calories a day , 2 grams potassium a day renal diet.
ACTIVITY: Walking as tolerated.
TO DO:
1. Wound care for decubitus ulcer.
2. Follow appointments with primary care physician , Hematology ,
Nephrology , and Vascular Surgery.
3. Please check fingersticks before meals and every evening.
4. Please follow INR every two days with goal INR of 2-3 on
Coumadin.
5. Please measure daily weights. If weight increases by three
pounds , please notify Dr. Kush .
6. T.i.d. wet-to-dry dressings to be applied to the left lower
extremity up to the thigh.
DISPOSITION: The patient is a full code.
eScription document: 8-4874617 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: JERRETT , RACHEAL
Attending: KUSH , QUINN JAKE
Dictation ID 6255304
D: 2/13/06
T: 2/13/06