020505906 | PUO | 47746833 | | 366783 | 11/10/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/10/1993 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/5/1993
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: STATUS POST MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION.
OTHER DIAGNOSES: 1. CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
2. DIABETES.
3. CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE.
4. PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Sobe is a 60 year old woman with
adult onset diabetes , hypertension , and
severe peripheral vascular disease status post cerebrovascular
accident in 1986 , who was recently admitted to I Warho Hospital between 7/8/23 with what was presumed to be an
exacerbation of her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and new
onset congestive heart failure. PFT's during that admission showed
FVC of 1.92 , 59% , FEV1 of 1.42 estimated at 55% and FEV1/FVC ratio
94%. An echocardiogram performed during that admission showed
normal left and right ventricular function and size. Since her
discharge , Ms. Sobe has become progressively weak and has noted
gradually increasing shortness of breath on exertion. She denies
fevers and chills , reports a dry cough but no nausea or vomiting.
The cough was nonproductive. She has had poor oral intake , however ,
no change in her bowel habits and no symptoms consistent with an
upper respiratory tract infection. She denies any episodes of chest
pain , however , notes that she requires three pillows to sleep on ,
new onset orthopnea and new onset pedal edema. She presented to the
I Warho Hospital to the emergency department after having
increased shortness of breath the night preceding the 6 of July and was
noted on arrival to the emergency room to have a blood pressure of
200/100 with an oxygen saturation on 100% face mask of 85%.
Portable chest x-ray was consistent with congestive heart failure
and she has been on Lasix , Morphine Sulfate , in addition to
nebulizer treatment. She initially responded well to this
treatment , diuresing 1.4 liters in urine output and her O2
saturation rose to 96% on six liters. At that point , she was
transferred to the floor to the general medical service. PAST
MEDICAL HISTORY: Notable for cerebrovascular accident in 1986 ,
diabetes mellitus since 1985 , she has been insulin dependent;
hypertension; congestive heart failure; chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease with a long history of smoking. MEDICATIONS ON
ADMISSION: Xanax .25 mg q hs p.r.n. , Lasix 20 mg po q.o.d. ,
insulin NPH 32 units and 6 units Regular q a.m. , enteric coated
aspirin one tablet q day , Elavil 25 mg q hs , Proventil two puffs q
6 p.r.n. ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. FAMILY HISTORY:
Notable for both parents who died of myocardial infarctions , mother
at age 65 and father at age 75 , both parents also had hypertension
and her mother had diabetes. She has several children , all of whom
are in good health. She lives with daughter. She has a sixty pack
year history of smoking but no longer smokes and denies any alcohol
use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Obese , white female in mild respiratory
distress. Blood pressure 120/60 , heart rate
120 , respiratory rate 16 , temperature 98 with oxygen saturation 94%
on three liters. HEENT exam was notable for normocephalic ,
atraumatic head. Extraocular movements were intact and pupils were
equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation. Oropharynx
was clear and sclera were also clear and anicteric. Neck exam was
supple. Jugular venous pressure was 10 cm and the carotids were
without bruits. Neck was without adenopathy. Lungs; rales
one-half way up from the bases bilaterally. Cardiac exam showed
that she was tachycardic but with a regular rhythm and S1 and S2
were heard clearly with an S4 , there were no murmurs or rubs noted.
Abdomen; notable for positive bowel sounds , soft , non-tender ,
non-distended , no hepatosplenomegaly and no other masses felt.
Extremities; 2+ pitting edema bilaterally with 1+ DP and PT pulses
bilaterally without femoral bruits. Rectal exam showed no masses
and was guaiac negative. Neuro exam; alert and oriented x3.
Cranial nerves were bilaterally intact and motor strength was 5 out
of 5 , and sensation was grossly intact as well as her coordination.
Reflexes were symmetric and toes were bilaterally down-going.
LABORATORY EVALUATION: On admission , sodium was 142 , potassium 4.6 ,
chloride 106 , bicarbonate 24 , BUN 13 ,
creatinine 0.7 , glucose 220. LFT's were within normal limits.
Albumin was 3.1 , calcium 9.0 , cholesterol 208 , triglycerides 220.
CBC showed a white count of 16 with hematocrit of 34.3 and
platelets 352 , MCV 91. The differential on her white count
demonstrated 82 polys , 12 lymphocytes , 5 monocytes , 1 eosinophil.
Her first CK was 33 with no MB fraction and an arterial blood gas
/showed pH of 7.41 , 31 , 77 , 23 , and 96%. Chest x-ray was consistent
with congestive heart failure with bilateral pleural effusions and
increased pulmonary vascular redistribution. EKG showed sinus
tachycardia at 120 with normal intervals and axis , with some
flattening in the STT waves in the lateral lead. Urinalysis was
negative.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was initially admitted to the floor where
she received another dose of IV Lasix and 30 mg
po Nifedipine. Twenty minutes later , patient was noted to be
hypotensive with a systolic blood pressure of 70. She was given a
small IV bolus of 100 cc normal saline with no response to her
systolic blood pressure. She was noted to be nauseated and vomited
x1 with midscapular back pain but no chest pain. She was markedly
diaphoretic , but did not complain of palpitations. Her blood sugar
was 181 and EKG at that time showed further T-wave flattening in
inferior leads. She was started on Dopamine 20 micrograms per
kilograms with initially no response. At that time , she was
transferred to cardiac unit for further management. In the CCU ,
she was weaned from IV Dobutamine and her blood pressures rapidly
came up to systolic blood pressure of 130. Her requirement for
oxygen was weaned from 100% face mask to 3 liters via nasal
cannula , with her O2 saturations remaining 94-95%. She was started
on a beta blocker and her rule out protocol for myocardial
infarction showed flat CK's , CK's numbering 33 , 58 , and 147 , with
no MB fractions and no further EKG changes , and no further episodes
of nausea , vomiting , or diaphoresis. On the third hospital day ,
she was transferred to the cardiology Ette La Hatul service. Soon after
transfer , a routine 12 lead EKG revealed deepening and inversion of
T-waves in the lateral leads , as well as the inferior leads. Her
heart rate at that time was 110 , blood pressure 130/90. She did not
complain of chest pain , shortness of breath , or diaphoresis.
Patient was given one tablet of sublingual Nitroglycerin with no
change in her heart rate and her blood pressure went to 180/60 and
she complained of a headache. She was given 5 mg IV push Lopressor
q 5 minutes x3 with response of her heart rate to 90. EKG post
intervention was without change and she was maintained on 3 liters
oxygen via nasal cannula , without change in her O2 saturation. At
that time , the patient was started on Heparin 5 , 000 units IV bolus
and maintained at 1200 units per hour , and a rule out protocol was
again started. Her CK's were flat and there were no further EKG
changes. The decision to proceed with cardiac catheterization was
presented to the patient and on the 4th hospital day , the patient
initially refused cardiac catheterization. However , after further
consideration , she agreed to cardiac catheterization on the 7th
hospital day , 6/4/93 .  Because of her history of acute renal
failure with creatinine rising from baseline of 1 to 1.7 on
previous admission with the initiation of Captopril , she had
concurrently an abdominal aortogram to rule out renal artery
stenosis. Her right heart catheterization showed a pulmonary
capillary wedge pressure of 15 with a diffusely diseased left
coronary system , right coronary with serial stenoses of 50%
proximal and 30% distal , and anterior apical hypokinesis with
preserved LV systolic function. An echocardiogram revealed
anteroseptal akinesis at the apex without any mention of thrombus ,
moderately dilated left ventricle with ejection fraction estimated
at 30%. It was felt at this time that the patient had suffered
myocardial infarction at the time between her two I Warho Hospital admissions. Her catheterization results suggested that
she would be best managed medically and her hospital course then
was notable for aggressive diuresis with Lasix and one time dose of
Zaroxolyn , and rate control initially with Diltiazem with moderate
success and then by the 7th hospital day the addition of Lopressor.
Patient diuresed well with loss of 2-3 kilograms and with decrease
in her oxygen requirement was able to be weaned to room air with
oxygen saturations 92-93%. By the time of her discharge , her O2
saturation was 95% on room air and she was able to ambulate without
assistance or complaints of chest pain or shortness of breath.
ID: On admission , patient's white blood cell count was noted to be
16 and it was persistently high throughout the first four or
five days of her hospital course. She remained afebrile until the
6th hospital day , when she was noted to have one temperature of
101. Blood culture , urine culture , sputum , and chest x-ray did not
reveal any evidence of infection and patient's white count was
noted to fall to 9.8. No IV antibiotics were given.
DIABETES; Patient was maintained on her normal dose of insulin
and except for the day when she went to catheterization ,
and covered with CZI sliding scale. Her blood sugars initially ran
in the 200 to 300 range but by the end of admission she was more
well controlled between 100 and 200 , and did not require addition
of CZI sliding scale. Of note , patient had described previous
incidences of feeling diaphoretic and hungry in which she would eat
presumably secondary to hypoglycemia. After starting her beta
blocker , she continued to have these sensations of hypoglycemia and
if so , it was though to be safe to continue with the beta blocker
treatment.
PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE; Patient has a history of femoral
stenosis and had been suggested that
she have a femoral angioplasty several years previously. Patient
refused that procedure at the time and has had no further
complications. During this admission a renal arteriogram was
performed , which showed no evidence of renal artery stenosis with a
mild non-flow in the stenosis in the right renal artery. Renal
cortex was smooth by arteriography.
DISPOSITION: There were no complications. Patient was able to
ambulate and was stable on discharge. Her congestive
heart failure was largely resolved , and she was discharged to home
with follow-up to be with Dr. Carmelita Toni in KTDUOO Clinic.
MEDICATIONS: Xanax 0.25 mg po q hs p.r.n.; Digoxin 0.25 mg po q
day; Lopressor 50 mg po b.i.d.; enteric coated
aspirin one tablet po q day; Lasix 60 mg po q day; insulin 32 units
NPH in the morning along with six units Regular insulin in the
morning; Elavil 25 mg po q hs. She is to continue with her
diabetic diet with 2100 calories and to have low salt , low
cholesterol diet.
Dictated By: CORYELL , CHRYSTAL LALA
Attending: LEOLA C. MUSICH , M.D. AQ28  VY407/4516
Batch: 3295 Index No. VRTUU8653X D: 11/13/93
T: 3/23/93
CC: 1. CARMELITA TONI , M.D. PX57