520297510 | PUO | 06673173 | | 821873 | 6/10/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/25/1995 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 7/20/1995
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: HYPERLIPIDEMIA
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Helmstetter is a 54 year old professor
at Tempe Lare , status
post coronary artery bypass graft ( 5 vessel bypass ) 8 years ago who
presents with recurrent substernal chest pain times one day. The
patient was transferred from Stusri Medical Center after developing the
acute onset of substernal chest pain while driving his automobile.
The patient was under no extraordinary circumstances ( e.g.
emotional stress , exertional stress ) at the time he developed chest
pain. Since the time of his five vessel CABG in 1987 , the patient
had experienced no intercurrent angina.
The patient's coronary risk factors include a positive family
history and a previous diagnosis of hyperlipidemia. However the
patient does not have hypertension , diabetes and he is not a
tobacco smoker.
As mentioned , the patient's chest pain was substernal and radiated
to the upper epigastrium. He experienced an element of burning
with exertion. Prior to this episode of recurrent chest pain , the
patient had had multiple exercise tolerance tests which were read
as normal. He graded the chest pain at 8/10.
The patient presented to CHH urgent care where his pain was not
relieved with four sublingual nitroglycerin. An EKG demonstrated
lateral ST wave depressions. The patient was transferred to
Stusri Medical Center where IV TNG , morphine and Nifedipine were given.
The patient's pain decreased to a level of 4/10. Despite these
maneuvers , the patient's pain continued through the night and in
the morning. In the morning , he received additional morphine and
IV Heparin was begun. Subsequently the patient became pain-free.
The patient was transferred to Pagham University Of for
further management.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hyperlipidemia. Bilateral anterior and
lateral thigh achiness with exertion
times six months ( workup in progress ).
MEDICATIONS: On presentation to Stusri Medical Center ,
Lovastatin 40 mg q q.m. , 20 mg q p.m. and
enteric-coated aspirin one tablet q day.
MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER FROM ALEJO NYHEG MEMORIAL HOSPITAL IV nitroglycerin , IV heparin , Nifedipine SL , morphine as
well as aspirin and Lovastatin.
The patient has no known drug allergies.
FAMILY HISTORY: The patient's father developed angina secondary
to coronary artery disease at age 54 and died
at age 75 from an MI.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married and lives at home with
his wife. He works as a professor at
Sta and restores buildings in his free time.
HABITS: The patient denies tobacco use. He is an
occasional alcohol drinker.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination , Mr. Helmstetter is
a pleasant middle-aged man , mildly
anxious but in no acute distress. Vital signs on transfer:
temperature 98.6 , heart rate 78 , blood pressure 110/78 , respiratory
rate 22 with oxygen saturation of 99% on 4 liters of oxygen.
HEENT: unremarkable. Neck: no jugular venous distention ( JVP
less than 6 cm ) , carotids were 2+ bilaterally with no bruits or
delayed upstroke. Lungs: clear with good breath sounds
bilaterally. Coronary: regular rate and rhythm with good heart
sounds and a clear Sl and S2. There were no rubs , murmurs or
gallops appreciated. There was no S3 or S4. The point of maximum
impulse was not displaced. The patient's spine was not tender and
there was no evidence of costovertebral angle tenderness. Abdomen
had good bowel sounds and was soft and nontender to palpation. No
masses were palpated. Groin demonstrated decreased femoral pulses
bilaterally with a faint left femoral bruit. Rectal: normal
rectal tone with an anodular prostate. Stool was soft , brown and
guaiac negative. Extremities demonstrated no clubbing , cyanosis or
edema. The patient's pulses at the dorsalis pedis and posterior
tibialis were 2+ bilaterally. Neurologic examination was nonfocal.
Electrolytes on presentation were within normal limits. His LFTs
were notable for a slight increase in his LDH to 252. The
patient's first CK on presentation was 2300 with a quantitative MB
of 10.2 ng/ml. Cholesterol was 79. Albumin 2.8. Protime 12.4 ,
INR 1.1. PTT 40.7 , consistent with heparin therapy. CBC was
notable for a normal white count , hematocrit and platelet count.
Urine had a specific gravity of 1.021 , pH 5 , negative dipstick
evaluation.
Chest x-ray demonstrated clear lung parenchyma and no bony
abnormalities. EKG on admission to Pagham University Of
showed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 73 with normal intervals
and an axis of 0. The patient had Q waves in leads 3 and F and
biphasic T waves in leads V4 through V6. There was minimal change
in these abnormalities with resolution of the patient's pain. Of
note , EKGs taken at Stusri Medical Center during the patient's initial
admission were notable for T wave depressions in leads V4 through
V6.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Cardiac
Intensive Care Unit on IV heparin and
nitroglycerine as well as continuation of his aspirin and
Lovastatin. The patient's pain was treated with morphine sulfate.
His CKs were followed serially every 8 hours and achieved a peak CK
of 2790 on 6/16/95 at 12 a.m. with an MB fraction of 188.8 ng/ml.
Thereafter the patient's CKs rapidly declined. On 3/30/94 , the
patient's CK was 317 with an MB fraction of 3.5 ng/ml.
After 24 hours pain-free in the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit , the
patient was transferred to the Cardiac Step-Down floor. His IV
nitroglycerin and IV heparin were discontinued and the patient
remained pain-free. Echocardiogram performed on 6/16/95
demonstrated inferior and posterior hypokinesis with an ejection
fraction of approximately 46%.
On 3/9/95 , the patient underwent exercise tolerance testing with a
submax modified Bruce protocol. The patient exercised 9 minutes
and was able to complete the study without dyspnea on exertion or
chest pain. He achieved a maximum heart rate of 108 and a
maximum blood pressure of 160/80. EKG was notable for unifocal
PVCs and up to 2 mm ST depression in leads V2 through V4 which
persisted up to 15 minutes into recovery. The patient was given
one sublingual nitroglycerin and these EKG changes resolved.
The exercise tolerance test was interpreted as strongly positive
for ischemic coronary artery disease.
On 1/9/95 , the patient underwent a submax MIBI to assess coronary
perfusion of the heart. Similarly , the exercise component of this
examination demonstrated EKG changes consistent with ischemic
coronary flow. Nuclear imaging demonstrated a fixed apical lateral
defect in the patient's heart consistent with a healed or healing
transmural infarct. There was no evidence of ischemic reperfusion
defects.
The results of these tests were discussed with the patient and his
wife in conjunction with the treating medical team of Dr. Tyacke .
The patient was offered the opportunity for coronary
catheterization to evaluate his anatomy , but he declined at the
present time. It was decided that the patient would be maximally
medically managed and discharged to home with close followup under
Dr. Tyacke and Dr. Blanke . The patient's cardiac medications were
appropriately adjusted while an inpatient to achieve maximum
cardiac benefit.
On presentation , the patient also complained of progressive
anterior and lateral thigh pain. This pain was brought on by
exertion and had increasingly limited his ability to walk over the
last six months whereas he had been able to walk four to five miles
a day in recent months. He had been able to walk only
approximately one-quarter mile before developing pain in his
anterior thighs as well whereas he had been able to climb several
flights of stairs a few months ago. He now was able to walk only
half a flight to a flight of stairs at a time before having to
rest. Six months ago , the patient had achieved a 25 pound weight
loss but , by his report , because of his inability to exercise
effectively , he had regained 15 pounds. The patient did not
experience this same anterior thigh pain while riding a bicycle or
swimming. As an inpatient , Mr. Helmstetter underwent a non-invasive
vascular study of the femoral and popliteal arteries. These
demonstrated no significant arterial occlusions as assessed by
pressure manometry. The possibility of myositis or neuromuscular
compromise was entertained and these are to be followed up as an
outpatient.
The patient also complained of symptoms consistent with an upper
respiratory viral infection which he had been experiencing over the
past two weeks. While an inpatient , he had a number of febrile
episodes , achieving a maximum temperature of 101.4. The patient
was treated symptomatically with Tylenol and started on Biaxin 500
mg po bid. He received a five day course of oral Biaxin with
resolution of his fever and decrease in his symptomatology.
The patient never complained of shortness of breath , palpitations ,
diaphoresis , nausea , vomiting or recurrent chest pain as an
inpatient. However physical examination demonstrated rales 4 to 5
cm above the bases bilaterally. The extremities remained free of
edema and the patient's jugular venous pressure never exceeded 6
cm. A chest x-ray on 5/7/95 demonstrated evidence of early
congestive heart failure. The patient was treated with daily doses
of IV Lasix with resolution of his rales. By the time of
discharge , there was no evidence of continued heart failure and the
patient's Lasix was discontinued.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg po q day
2. Cholestyramine one packet po q hs
3. Lovastatin 20 mg po q hs
4. Lopressor 50 mg po tid
5. Sublingual nitroglycerin 1/150 tablets to be taken prn
with chest pain
DISPOSITION: The patient is being discharged to home with
followup in CHH under Drs. Mackenzie Mallory Tyacke .
The patient was instructed to call CHH Urgent Care if his chest
pain recurs and does not resolve with sublingual nitroglycerin.
Dictated By: GAYLENE FANIEL , M.D. NX03
Attending: MACKENZIE TYACKE , M.D. WA4  HU716/7643
Batch: 759 Index No. AIRQP95G50 D: 8/13/95
T: 8/13/95