663917208 | PUO | 66936113 | | 847052 | 5/15/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/27/1994 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 8/10/1994
PRINCIPLE DIAGNOSIS: PLEURISY , POSSIBLY SECONDARY TO A POST
VIRAL SYNDROME.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: 1. HISTORY OF PULMONARY EMBOLI IN 1971
AND IN 1988.
2. HISTORY OF STREP PHARYNGITIS IN July
OF 1994 , TREATED WITH PENICILLIN.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 54 year old female with
a history of pulmonary emboli in the
past , now with complaint of four days of pleuritic chest pain and
left arm heaviness. Coronary risk factors include a positive
family history , no smoking , diabetes mellitus , hypertension or
elevated cholesterol. The patient's history begins in 1971 when ,
after a tubal ligation , she had a pulmonary emboli which was felt
to be secondary to prolonged bedrest. She received Heparin and was
coumadinized for one year. In 1988 she had lower abdominal pain ,
extensive work up of which revealed a pulmonary emboli , and again
she was heparinized and coumadinized for one year. On September , 1994
she developed the acute onset of intermittent chest pressure and
left arm heaviness , associated with night sweats. There was no
shortness of breath , palpitations , light-headedness , nausea or
vomiting. The pain was exacerbated by deep breaths as well as
yawning and movement. It was not relieved by any factors. On the
morning of admission the discomfort progressed from intermittent to
constant and was unrelieved with two Advils , at which time she
subsequently presented to the Pagham University Of
Emergency Ward. In the Emergency Ward her examination was
negative. Chest x-ray was negative. VQ scan was with intermediate
probability. She received Heparin and was subsequently transferred
to the floor. She denied any fevers , chills , cough , shortness of
breath , diarrhea , constipation , abdominal pain or dysuria. It is
noteworthy that the patient had an Emergency Ward visit on April
at which time she complained of sore throat. Rapid Strep test was
positive for Strep pharyngitis. She was treated with a course of
Penicillin. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Her past medical history is as
above. She also has a history of dysfunctional uterine bleeding ,
iron deficiency anemia , lumbosacral disc disease , status post
laminectomy times three. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Medications on
admission are Motrin prn. ALLERGIES: She has no known drug
allergies. FAMILY HISTORY: Her mother died from complications
from hypertension. Her father died from a cerebrovascular
accident. She has one sister who is deceased from burn injuries ,
one brother who passed away from a myocardial infarction at age 57 ,
and two brothers who passed away from natural causes. SOCIAL
HISTORY: She is a clerk. She is divorced with five children. She
never smoked. She drinks alcohol occasionally. She has no HIV
risk factors and no known TB exposures.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination she is a
well-developed , well-nourished female
appearing her stated age and in no apparent distress. Temperature
is 98 , pulse 94 , blood pressure 140/88 , and respirations 16. Heent
shows extraocular movements were intact. Oropharynx revealed no
erythema , edema or exudate. Mucous membranes were moist. Neck was
supple with no lymphadenopathy. Carotids were 2+ bilaterally.
Lungs revealed right basilar rales. Coronary examination revealed
a regular rate and rhythm with positive S1 and S2 and no S3 or S4.
There were no murmurs , rubs or gallops. Abdomen is soft and
non-tender with positive bowel sounds. There was no
hepatosplenomegaly or masses noted. Rectal was guaiac negative in
the Emergency Ward. Extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis or
edema. Neurological examination was non-focal.
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium was 142 , potassium 4.1 , BUN 15 , creatinine
.8 , and glucose 74. Liver function tests were
within normal limits. CK was 697 with an MB of 8.5. White count
was 4.1 , hematocrit 37 and platelet count was 252 , 000. PT was
12.5 , PTT 29.3. Chest x-ray , which was a portable film , was clear.
VQ scan was read as intermediate probability. EKG revealed a sinus
bradycardia at 54 with normal axis and intervals. She had flipped
T waves in leads 3 , F , and V1 through V3 , biphasic T waves in V4 ,
flat T waves in V5 and V6. There was poor R wave progression and Q
waves in 1 and L.
HOSPITAL COURSE: It was felt that during the patient's
presentation the most likely diagnosis was a
pulmonary embolus , given her clinical history and her intermediate
probability of VQ scan. The elevated CK with the very low MB was
felt not to represent a myocardial infarction but to represent a CK
leak from presumed pulmonary infarction. The patient was
heparinized with the goal of maintaining her PTT in the 60 to 80
range. She had a thrombotic work up sent off , namely an
antithrombin 3 , protein C and protein S , all of which , with the
exception of the Russell viper venom , returned within normal
limits. The Russell viper venom is pending at the time of
dictation. The patient underwent lower extremity noninvasives on
hospital day number one which returned as negative. She had a D
dimer sent which was also normal. At this point the DVT Team here
at the Pagham University Of was consulted , given the
conflicted data for pulmonary emboli. The team felt that , given
the patient's clinical history and the implications of chronic
Coumadin therapy , that a pulmonary embolus should be definitely
ruled out by pulmonary arteriogram. On hospital day number two the
patient underwent a PA gram which revealed a mean RA pressure of 7
mm of mercury , a mean RV pressure of 12 mm of mercury , and no
filling defects to suggest a pulmonary embolus. At this point the
patient's Heparin was discontinued. The day prior to obtaining the
pulmonary arteriogram the patient had a good PA and lateral film ,
which revealed no focal infiltrates and no effusions. On hospital
day number three the patient underwent an echocardiogram which
revealed normal left ventricular size and mild left ventricular
hypertrophy with vigorous function and no regional wall motion
abnormalities. She had no pericardial thickening or pericardial
effusion to suggest pericarditis. She had structurally normal
cardiac valves , no significant mitral or tricuspid regurge. She
had a minimal amount of aortic regurgitation and normal right heart
size and function. At this point , given the fact that the patient
was not felt to have a myocardial infarction , given her low MB
total CK ratio , and also that she was not felt to have a pulmonary
embolus , given the negative PA gram , the diagnosis of pleurisy
secondary to possible close viral syndrome was considered. The
patient was started on Naprosyn at 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. on hospital
day number three , to which she responded quite well. After
discussion with the patient's primary doctor it was felt that ,
given the fact that serious causes for pleuritic chest pain had
been ruled out , the patient's management could be followed in an
outpatient setting. On hospital day number four it was felt that
she was safe to be discharged to home. Operations and procedures
performed during this hospitalization were pulmonary arteriogram by
Survn's General Hospital on April , 1994. There were no complications.
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Discharge medications
include Naprosyn 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. with meals. The
patient is being discharged to home. FOLLOW UP: She will follow
up with Dr. Gladis Hollendonner on August , 1994 at 1:30 p.m.
Dictated By: FLORETTA THRONEBURG , M.D. JD63
Attending: IRVING ESCALANTE , M.D. YO2  KA792/9584
Batch: 7272 Index No. JESZ732JS D: 9/20/94
T: 5/30/94