325236852 | PUO | 47804624 | | 2511318 | 11/12/2003 12:00:00 AM | RECURRENT L4-5 HERNIATED DISC , L5-S1 SPINAL STENOSIS , INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/11/2003 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 8/21/2003
PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: L4-L5 , L5-S1 HERNIATED NUCLEUS PULPOSUS.
PROCEDURE: Revision decompression at S1 with iliac crest graft
fusion. Instrument fusion with a later iliac bone
graft.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 68-year-old male with
a history of lumbar spinal stenosis ,
status post L3-L4 , L4-L5 foraminotomy , left-sided L5-S1 foraminal
decompression , and L4-L5 laminectomy with new L4-L5 , L5-S1
herniated nucleus pulposus , and lower back pain with radicular
symptoms. He described his back pain as 80% of his complaint , and
20% is his radicular symptoms. The pain is greater on the right
than on the left. He has had conservative management. He
complains of bowel and bladder changes with decreased rectal tone ,
and control with urine and feces. He denies any lower extremity
weakness or numbness throughout his perineum. He was recently seen
in the Gle Ra Csylv Valley Medical Center Emergency Room on 1/11/02 , for low back
pain and sciatica; however , he left AMA. He presents for elective
decompression and instrument infusion of his lumbar spine.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Obesity , hypertension , diabetes mellitus ,
coronary artery disease , GI bleed. A
history of seizure disorder and peripheral neuropathy.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Bilaterally total knee arthroplasty;
shoulder surgery; aortic valve replacement ,
times two; cardiac catheterization; hydrocele repair.
MEDICATIONS: Please see nurse's note.
ALLERGIES: Coumadin , is not a true allergy , however , he has been
unable to achieve therapeutic INR.
SOCIAL HISTORY: He is a reformed smoker and drinker. He is a
retired salesman.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Pertinent neurologic findings. Bilateral
lower extremity edema. Light touch is
intact throughout with slight decrease in bilateral feet consistent
with neuropathy , left greater than right. Decreased sensation.
Motor strength is 5/5 with the quads , hams , GS , TA , EHL. The left
side fatigues sooner than the right. A negative clonus. DTRs are
equal bilaterally quads , hams and Achilles. Capillary refill is
less than two seconds.
MRI from 6/17/02 , reveals left-sided L5-S1 herniated HNP with
foraminal narrowing.
The EKG shows no ST elevation or depression; however , there is no
prior study for comparison.
Laboratory values: Potassium 4.7. Hematocrit 38.5. INR 1.0.
Urinalysis negative.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient underwent lumbar spine decompression
with L4-S1 instrument infusion with augmentation
of the iliac crest bone graft. Postoperative course was
uneventful. The patient remained afebrile , hemodynamically stable.
Autologous blood was necessary. He was required to maintain a
hematocrit above 30. He remained afebrile. Normal perioperative
antibiotics were given , however. His p.o. intake was delayed
secondary to delay in return of GI function. He did have an
episode of dark emesis early in his postoperative course on
postoperative day #1/2. He was slow to mobilize with physical
therapy. This was in part secondary to his pain level and also
intermittent confusion , for which a medicine consult was obtained.
Kayexalate was given for elevation of his potassium; otherwise , his
confusion resolved with decrease of his narcotic medications.
Physical therapy was able to resume. He was able to advance
appropriately. Hospitalization was prolonged secondary to waiting
for a rehab placement. At the time of discharge , his incision was
clear , dry and intact.
He was discharged to the _____ rehab with the following
instructions. Discharge medications: OxyContin , Percocet , and
Colace , in addition to preoperative medications. Activity:
Weightbearing , as tolerated. When out of bed , must have brace on.
Followup: Follow-up in six weeks. Call for an appointment.
Diet: As tolerated.
Dictated By: STACEY QUELLA , M.D. CI03
Attending: DEBBIE WIMPEY , M.D. CW4  OU583/457018
Batch: 04398 Index No. E0MV3NS8B1 D: 3/2/03
T: 6/24/03