009846710 | PUO | 50140079 | | 766381 | 5/29/1997 12:00:00 AM | PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/13/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/6/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: LEFT FEMOROPOPLITEAL BYPASS GRAFTING AND
RIGHT FIFTH TOE AMPUTATION SITE SPLIT
THICKNESS SKIN GRAFTING
PROBLEMS: 1 ) PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE
2 ) HYPERTENSION
3 ) TYPE II DIABETES MELLITUS
4 ) ELEVATED CHOLESTEROL
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 49 year-old male who
has developed type II diabetes
mellitus approximately ten years ago but has been without regular
medical follow-up. He has also experienced worsening peripheral
vascular disease. In this context , he was admitted to Pagham University Of approximately one month ago , when on May , he
underwent debridement of diabetic foot ulcers and amputation of the
right fifth toe. On October , he also underwent a right
femoropopliteal bypass graft. He was discharged from Pagham University Of on February , 1997 to home , followed by VNA for
dressing changes. He did well postoperatively; however , he began
experiencing increasing pain in both legs over the two days prior
to admission. He treated this with Tylenol. He states this
glucose levels have been doing well , although he is not able to
cite any numbers.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) Hypertension. 2 ) Peripheral vascular
disease. 3 ) Type II diabetes mellitus. 4 )
Elevated cholesterol.
MEDICATIONS: Medications on admission included Vasotec 5
milligrams q.d.; Glyburide 5 milligrams q.d.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Tobacco: two packs per day times 40 years ,
presently an active smoker. Alcohol: denies
alcohol intake in the last six weeks; history of previous heavy
alcohol use. The patient is divorced. He currently lives with his
girlfriend. He is currently disabled and is not working.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: GENERAL: 35 pound weight loss over the past
three years. ENT: Recent blurring of vision.
NEUROLOGICAL: Numbness and tingling on the left foot dorsal
surface. CARDIOVASCULAR: Hypertension , but no known history of
cardiac events. PSYCHIATRIC: Admits to some depression.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: This is an ill appearing , uncomfortable
gentleman in mild distress on admission.
VITAL SIGNS: Afebrile. Blood pressure 130/82. Pulse 84.
Respiratory rate 16. SKIN: Warm and dry. There are no palpable
nodes. HEENT: Normocephalic and atraumatic. LUNGS: Clear to
auscultation throughout. HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. Normal
S1/S2. ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender , with active bowel sounds.
NEUROLOGICAL: The patient is alert and oriented times three.
EXTREMITIES: There is no edema. There is a right groin incision
with slight separation of the surgical wound at its most distal
aspect , approximately one centimeter magnitude. PULSES: Popliteal
pulse is by Doppler only on both sides. The posterior tibial pulse
is non Dopplerable. The dorsalis pedis pulse is detectable with
Doppler , stronger on the left than on the right. On the left foot ,
there were two necrotic areas on the heel approximately 0.5
centimeter in diameter. The first metatarsal joint has a 1.2
centimeter wound which is dry , tender and not erythematous outside
of its margins , boggy at the distal aspect. There is a small
amount of tan exudate present at the distal wound edge. On the
right foot , there is a distal lateral wound 4.6 centimeters in
width , 3.1 centimeters in length , and 1 centimeter deep. There is
pale green fluffing on the plantar edge of the wound. The right
heel has a 4.2 X 2.5 centimeter open area approximately 2-3
millimeters deep in the wound bed; pink with scattered white
material fluffing. There is no surrounding erythema or bogginess.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission , glucose was 81 , sodium 137 ,
potassium 4.7 , chloride 101 , bicarbonate 26 , BUN
and creatinine of 18 and 0.9 respectively. CK was 145. CBC was as
follows: white blood cell count of 10 , hematocrit 43.1 , platelets
425 , with a normal differential. Urinalysis was notable only for
1+ protein on the dip.
HOSPITAL COURSE: During admission , the patient underwent a left
femoropopliteal bypass graft and split thickness
skin grafting to the right fifth toe amputation site , as well as
debridement of other lower extremity wounds on April .  He
tolerated the procedure well and postoperatively progressed without
complications. He was taken off epidural pain medications and
switched to p.o. medications and resumed a regular diet shortly
after the operation. The debrided wounds on the right foot were
treated with Xeroform dressings covered with Kerlix and an Ace
bandage. These wounds have shown signs of vascularity and healing ,
and the split thickness skin graft has taken in a satisfactory
manner. The patient has begun to increase his activity with the
guidance of the physical therapist , and is now moving on crutches
with touch down weight bearing of the right foot and no weight
bearing on the right side. There were no complications during this
admission. The patient complained of some blurring in the right
eye. This was followed by an Ophthalmology consult , during which
it was determined that there has likely been a gradual decline in
the patient's vision due to a combination of development of
cataracts as well as peripheral vascular disease. It was felt that
the appropriate management would be to have the patient return to
Ophthalmology Clinic on an outpatient basis.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Vasotec 5 milligrams p.o. q.d.; Glyburide
5 milligrams p.o. q.d.; Wellbutrin 75
milligrams p.o. q.d.; heparin 5 , 000 units subcutaneously b.i.d.;
CZI sliding scale insulin subcutaneously; Ativan 1 milligram p.o.
q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia; Betadine topical ointment to surgical wound
site; MSIR 15-30 milligrams p.o. q.3-4h. p.r.n. pain; Lanolin
ointment to the feet q.d.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
DISPOSITION: To rehabilitation facility.
FOLLOW-UP: 1 ) The patient will follow-up with Ashore Cleod Health at
Pagham University Of in approximately one week;
appointment as indicated in the discharge instructions in the
Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of computer. 2 ) Follow-up in Centcent Hospital in three weeks to start regular outpatient
medical management of the patient's medical issues. 3 )
Ophthalmology Clinic follow-up in three weeks to address the
blurring of the vision recently.
ESTIMATED DISABILITY: The patient is disabled and has been
prior to admission.
Dictated By: HERTHA CHWIEROTH , M.D.
Attending: ROSSIE K. MANKOSKI , M.D. KN95  PA891/4836
Batch: 2852 Index No. B1KE9V6N1Y D: 4/1/97
T: 4/1/97