639512267 | PUO | 07902746 | | 1124152 | 8/5/2004 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/5/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 5/26/2005
ATTENDING: MARCOS WARRAN MD
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES:
1. Hypoglycemia.
2. Altered mental status.
OTHER DIAGNOSES:
1. Volume overload likely secondary to CHF.
2. Possible pneumonia.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for:
1. Bilateral occipital CVAs.
2. Diabetes , on insulin.
3. Hypertension.
4. Chronic renal insufficiency.
5. Coronary artery disease.
6. Visual impair with tunnel vision.
7. Monoclonal gammopathy.
8. Bilateral occipital CVAs.
9. History of left upper extremity thrombophlebitis.
10. Microcytic anemia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
The patient is a 75-year-old woman who was found at home with
altered mental status by home services and home nursing with
confusion. Her fingerstick was 37 , which increased to 42 with
orange juice with improvement of her mental status. Her insulin
regimen has been stable for quite some time. She had taken her
regular dose of Novolin 40 units on the morning of admission.
She was sent to the emergency department. She has noted
increasing bilateral lower extremity edema over one or two
months , increased dyspnea on exertion , nocturia. In the ED , her
ambulatory sat was 91% on room air. Glucose was still low and on
chest x-ray there was evidence of a right pleural effusion and
right lower lobe consolidation versus atelectasis. She was given
Lasix , glucose , Levaquin , and blood cultures were drawn. She was
admitted for treatment of pneumonia.
She has an allergy to propoxyphene.
MEDICATIONS:
1. Lasix 80 mg p.o q.d. in the morning , 40 mg p.o. q.d. in the
evening.
2. Atenolol 75 mg p.o. q.d.
3. Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.
4. Amitriptyline 25 to 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.
5. Multivitamins.
6. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
7. Folate 100 mg p.o. q.d.
8. Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d.
9. Iron gluconate 325 mg p.o. t.i.d.
10. Novolin 34 to 40 units subcu. q.d.
11. Epogen 5000 units subcu. q. week.
FAMILY HISTORY:
Father died of an MI in his 70s , mother died of leukemia. No
history of hematologic disorders in her family. No history of
thalassemia that the patient knows of.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
She lives in an assisted living facility and has extensive home
care services and lives alone. She was previously a nurse. She
has children who live nearby.
PHYSICAL EXAM:
Vital signs: Temperature was 95.2 , blood pressure 111/69 , heart
rate 73 , sating 97% on room air. She was alert and oriented x3.
Speech and mentation were normal. No lymphadenopathy. 2/6
systolic murmur at the base radiating to across her precordium.
Distant heart sounds. Right lower lobe with decreased breath
sounds and decreased phrenitis , wheezing throughout her right
lung. Abdomen: Obese , soft , nondistended , nontender , benign.
Extremities: 2 to 3+ pitting edema bilateral and symmetric.
Neurologic: She was moving all extremities well. Left eye with
slight lateral deviation. Extraocular movements intact. Pupils
equally round and reactive to light. Evidence of an old
cataract.
ADMISSION DATA:
BNP of 1111 , creatinine was 2.4 which was below her baseline of
2.6 to 2.8 , white count was 6.6 with no left shift , hematocrit
was 35.7 which is up from her baseline of 27 to 33. MCV was 67.4
which is stable and it has been in this range and she was found
to have in 5/25 a monoclonal gammopathy on SPEP. EKG showed
an inferoseptal Q wave , poor R wave progression , low voltage left
axis deviation. Echo in 5/25 showed an EF of 50 to 55% with
moderate-to-severe MR and TR , septal hypokinesis and a MIBI at
that time showed no reversible ischemia. Chest x-ray as
describes above. UA negative for UTI.
IMPRESSION:
The patient was evaluated to be low likelihood for having
pneumonia. She was thought to more likely have volume overload
secondary to CHF. Because of her visual problems and declining
physical condition and deconditioning , patient's current living
situation and arrangements are possibly insufficient for her
increasing needs and error in self administration of medications
or increasing renal insufficiency or poor p.o. intake may have
precipitated her hypoglycemic episode and altered mental status.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
ID/Pulmonary: Right lower lobe pneumonia versus CHF , pleural
effusion. This was treated initially with levofloxacin although
it is unlikely consolidated lobar pneumonia because of the
patient's good clinical status , lack of fever and white count and
lack of toxicity. Sputum culture and gram stein were
unremarkable. Pleural effusion on the right decreased only
minimally with diuresis of 1 to 2 liters overnight and for
diagnostic and therapeutic purposes , the patient underwent a
thoracentesis on 3/1/05 and had withdraw 800 cc of clear yellow
fluid whose chemistries and cell count were consistent with a
sterile transudative effusion. Gram stein was negative.
Cultures are pending at this time and a chest x-ray may be
repeated to rule out underlying pneumonia revealed by draining of
the effusion. Urine legionella was negative.
Renal: Chronic renal insufficiency. Creatinine is at a baseline
of 2.6 and it decreased significantly on this admission possibly
because of improved forward flow from discontinuation of her ACE
inhibitor.
Endocrinology: The patient was admitted with hypoglycemic
diabetes possibly secondary to infection or logistical and social
barriers. Her NPH dose was cut to 20 units subcu. q.d. with
lispro sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s. which she needed only
minimally about 5 units a day and her sugars were well controlled
on this regimen which supports the hypothesis that her NPH dose
of 34 units a day was too high beyond a certain point.
Cardiac:
A. Pump: The patient with CHF , known valvular dysfunction ,
exhibiting pulmonary edema , lower extremity edema and orthopnea.
She was initially diuresed with IV Lasix and it was noted that
her weight was up 10 pounds from her prior admission. She was
transitioned to p.o. Lasix after diuresing very well on this
regimen. She continued her Lipitor and aspirin , atenolol was
changed metoprolol given her renal insufficiency. Lisinopril was
switched to captopril , then discontinued given her bumping
creatinine while diuresing on the ACE inhibitor. She was
slightly hypotensive with systolic blood pressures in the 90s to
100s at one point and responded to a bolus of fluid , decrease in
the captopril and holding the Lasix , unclear etiology , looks
otherwise low. Lasix was decreased to 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. and the
patient should have daily weights and electrolytes checked and
repleted to ensure that her diuresis is only moderate everyday no
more than one liter a day but is consistent such that she is able
to maintain her electrolytes and loose fluid overtime.
Heme: The patient has a monoclonal gammopathy and a microcytosis
which might suggest thalassemia. She is on iron and Epogen with
an improved hematocrit from the prior admission but no change in
her MCV , which suggests that she has more than renal disease
causing her microcytosis. Further workup of her monoclonal
gammopathy will be deferred to her primary care physician.
Diabetic diet: Low sodium , low fat , low cholesterol.
Prophylaxis: Heparin and H2 blocker.
DISPOSITION:
The patient has been screened for admission to Bussadd Southrys Community Hospital where
she will go today. Her goal is intense physical therapy and
learning greater independence in her daily functioning. Her
pelvic films were negative for fracture. She should be ambulated
t.i.d.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2. Metoprolol 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3. Lipitor 10 mg p.o. q.d.
4. Amitriptyline 25 to 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.
5. Multivitamins.
6. Aspirin325 mg p.o. q.d.
7. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
8. Lisinopril should be held for the moment.
9. Iron gluconate 325 mg p.o. q.i.d.
10. NPH 20 units subcu. q.h.s.
11. Lispro sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s.
12. Epogen 5000 units subcu. q. week.
Ms Rizas should follow up with Dr. Labauve when she is able to
within the next week or two. Labauve is her primary care
physician , Lashawna Labauve her PCP number is 116-406-5401. She
should b switched to Toprol as her blood pressure tolerates and
to lisinopril as her creatinine tolerates after low-level
diuresis of about 50 cc to one liter a day. Studies pending
include cytology and culture of pleural fluid and follow-up chest
x-ray on the day of her discharge. Lasix dose can be increased as
needed for better diuresis.
eScription document: 8-2888039 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: LALATA , JOHNETTA
Attending: WARRAN , MARCOS
Dictation ID 3657222
D: 4/5/05
T: 4/5/05