978279966 | PUO | 99285615 | | 574624 | 10/20/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/21/1996 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/1/1996
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: DYSPNEA ON EXERTION , KNOWN CORONARY ARTERY
DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 76-year-old gentleman
with chest pain syndrome and known
coronary artery disease admitted with increasing exertional
dyspnea , thought to be his anginal equivalent. He was admitted for
medical management and possible laser angioplasty of an occluded
left circumflex coronary artery. In January 1995 , the patient was
admitted with an acute chest pain syndrome. Cardiac
catheterization , at that time , demonstrated 100% occlusion of the
left circumflex artery which was heavily calcified and not amenable
to balloon angioplasty. The patient underwent an exercise
tolerance test on May , 1995 where he exercised six minutes and
stopped secondary to fatigue. The patient had no chest discomfort
or ECG changes during the exercise test. He was discharged home on
a medical regimen , including enteric coated aspirin ,
hydrochlorothiazide 25 once a day , metoprolol 100 mg b.i.d. , nitro
patch 0.2 mg per hour , and sublingual nitroglycerin p.r.n. The
patient also continued on Verapamil SR 240 mg b.i.d. for his high
blood pressure. At home , the patient reports that he has not been
exercising as frequently as he used to and his exercise regimen
usually consisted of 15 minutes on a ski machine three times a
week. He continues to get some exertional dyspnea and also has
episodes of chest pain , usually after a meal , while he is lying in
bed. This probably represents a reflux disease. Due to the
increasing frequency of his dyspneic episodes with exertion , the
patient contacted his primary cardiologist , Earnestine Fiermonte , and it
was felt that he probably needed to be admitted for better medical
management and to have an attempted laser angioplasty of his
occluded left circumflex artery.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin one tablet p.o.
q.day , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o.
q.day , Verapamil SR 240 b.i.d. , K-Dur 10 mEq q.day , Lopressor 100
mg p.o. b.i.d. , and nitro patch 0.2 mg times two patches times two
hours q.day.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is an elderly gentleman in no
apparent distress. His heart rate was 52
and regular. Blood pressure was 160/94. HEENT examination was
unremarkable. His lungs were clear. Cardiovascular examination
was significant for an S4 , normal S1 , S2 , no murmurs. His abdomen
was benign. His extremities had no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.
LABORATORY DATA: His ECG showed sinus bradycardia at 56 with left
anterior vesicular block and right bundle branch
block , borderline left atrial enlargement. Chest x-ray was clear.
SMA-7 was normal other than a slightly high creatinine at 1.7 and a
low potassium of 3.1. He had a normal CBC and normal PT/PTT.
ASSESSMENT: In summary , this is a 76-year-old gentleman with known
coronary artery disease , known occlusion of the left
circumflex with an exercise tolerance test one year ago without
evidence for ischemia. He presents with chest pain , shortness of
breath syndrome , etiology of which is unclear.
HOSPITAL COURSE: He was admitted to the Cardiology Enford Ard Ster team where
he underwent a exercise tolerance test on April ,
1996 , during which he went 4 minutes and 22 seconds. He stopped
secondary to dyspnea on exertion and leg fatigue with no chest
pain. He had nonspecific changes in his ECG , and his MIBI images
revealed inferolateral ischemia. On July , 1996 , he underwent
cardiac catheterization with laser assisted PTCA of his left
circumflex lesion , which he tolerated well. His post
catheterization course was slightly complicated by increased
bleeding from the groin site , as well as the possible development
of a hematoma versus pseudoaneurysm as a bruit was heard in the
right groin. This was evaluated with a vascular ultrasound which
showed no hematoma and no pseudoaneurysm. He was observed
overnight and was discharged on 8/26/96 in stable condition. His
blood pressure medications were manipulated for better control of
his significant hypertension , as well as for increased outpatient
compliance. During his hospitalization , urine cultures were sent
which grew alpha hemolytic Streptococcus. This was treated with
ampicillin initially and he will be sent home on pen-VK. Also of
note , during this admission , hemoglobin A1C was sent which was
slightly elevated at 7. He started on glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.day.
However , the patient felt that he did not need to take this and
refused it. His medical team felt that it was more important for
him to be compliant with his hypertension and cardiac medications ,
at this juncture , and the issue of restarting glyburide will be
brought up in the outpatient setting by Dr. Fiermonte . He is
discharged today , August , 1996 with VNA services to monitor
medicine compliance and measure blood pressures , as well as for a
home safety evaluation.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day ,
atenolol 100 mg p.o. q.day ,
hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.day , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.day ,
Adalat CC 30 mg p.o. q.day , nitroglycerin 1/150 one tablet
sublingually q.5 minutes times three p.r.n. chest pain , Prilosec 20
mg p.o. q.day , simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , and pen-VK 250 mg
p.o. q.i.d. times five days.
Dictated By: FLO VERSIE TITTERNESS , M.D. JT55
Attending: EARNESTINE M. FIERMONTE , M.D. JJ5  AP176/7685
Batch: 10277 Index No. H1SJTGAUT D: 8/26/96
T: 8/18/96