263175973 | PUO | 25953994 | | 3110465 | 2/7/2006 12:00:00 AM | WEAKNESS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/15/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/2/2006
ATTENDING: DELMENDO , CRISTINE M.D.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS:
Failure to thrive.
OTHER DIAGNOSES:
Marfan syndrome , migraine , restrictive lung disease , diabetes
mellitus , history of aortic dissection , and opioid abuse.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 59-year-old woman with multiple medical problems
including Marfan syndrome , restrictive lung disease , and diabetes
who presented with failure to thrive at home. She was seen by
her VNA on the day of admission who was worried about her
declining clinical picture including lethargy and poor
responsiveness and the decision was made in conjunction with the
PCP to admit. On admission , the patient is complaining of
chronic hip and leg pain that she describes as sciatic leg. She
was recently discharged from Norap Valley Hospital after being
admitted for pain control and opioid addiction. She was seen by
the psychiatry team there who thought that she has also had
significant anxiety components and she was started there on
suboxone as needed for pain given it has less potential for
abuse. She was also followed by the pain clinic and had been
using fentanyl patches.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Marfan syndrome with aortic insufficiency and mitral valve
regurgitation. She is status post mitral valve replacements with
a St. Jude valve , also migraines , restrictive lung disease , and a
history of a subdural hematoma in 1990 and 2002. She has
radiologic evidence of an old left-sided CVA , diabetes mellitus ,
history of aortic dissection , she is on 4 L of home oxygen ,
glaucoma , GERD , status post pacemaker placement , subdural
evacuation , question hiatal hernia. EV repair.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
Clarinex 5 mg daily , Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Duragesic patch 12
mcg per hour , digoxin 0.25 mg daily , Coumadin 2 mg daily , Fosamax
weekly , glyburide 2.5 mg daily , Tylenol With Codeine p.r.n. ,
Lipitor 10 mg daily , Lidoderm , MS Contin 15 mg b.i.d. , oxybutynin
5 mg daily , Protonix 40 mg daily , Zoloft 25 mg daily.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
Tobacco use in the past about 14 years two packs per day , no
alcohol , no recreational drug use.
FAMILY HISTORY:
No known family history of Marfan. It may be mild disease in a
sibling. She has a sister who is also involved in her care.
Contact information for the sister is the e-mail address
dfxpswdm@ovp.uyf.
ALLERGIES:
Tetracycline analogs unknown reaction , nitrofurantoin unknown
reaction , ampicillin unknown reaction , quinidine unknown
reaction , morphine excessive somnolence , sulfa drug hives ,
erythromycins unknown reaction , ciprofloxacin hives. According
to the patient , she has taken ampicillin without trouble in the
past.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:
Temperature 98 , pulse 68 , blood pressure 90/60 , respiratory rate
16 , satting 91% on 2 L. She was in no acute distress. She was
talkative. Her mucous membranes are moist. Cranial nerves II
through XII are intact. Pupils were small. Neck: Her JVP was
flat. Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm with occasional
ectopy. Respiratory: Clear to auscultation with bibasilar rales
bilaterally. Abdomen: Soft , nontender , nondistended.
Extremities: No edema. Neurologic: Alert and oriented x3.
Skin was flaky. She had ridging in her nails.
ADMISSION LABORATORIES:
Notable for sodium 142 , potassium 3.7 , chloride 93 , bicarbonate
40 , BUN 23 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 139 , calcium 8.7 , ALT 85 , AST
88 , T. bili 0.9 , alkaline phosphatase 70 , albumin 4.0 , PTT 36 ,
INR 2.1 , digoxin level was 2.5 , white count 7.8 , hematocrit 34.6.
Chest x-ray moderate-to-severe cardiac enlargement , tortuous
aorta , evidence of prior cardiac surgery , left lower lobe
parenchymal opacification right base , no significant change from
baseline. EKG was within normal limits. There were no signs of
heart failure and the faint right lower lobe opacity was
suggestive of vessel crowd/atelectasis.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
Consults: She was followed by her outpatient cardiologist , Dr.
Kush , e-mail address nizwde@ltwfywcn.dgp. His phone number is
363-604-9315. Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of beeper is 05024. For psychiatry , the
contact person is Arlene Mcquiggan . Can be paged through the
Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of paging system.
1. Neurologic: This is a patient with chronic pain syndrome ,
plus or minus history of narcotic addiction and recent detox at
Norap Valley Hospital and likely abused/overuse of narcotics prior to
this admission at home. The plan was to treat her without using
narcotics. She was maintained on Tylenol , ibuprofen , tramadol ,
clonazepam , and Zyprexa. On 10/27/06 , she fell in her room and
hit her head on the side of the bed/commode. She denied any loss
of consciousness. She does not remember the event. She was
alert and oriented x2. She was given a head CT , which showed no
acute intracranial abnormality , no hemorrhage , infarct , mass , or
midline chest. She did have some mild-to-moderate ischemic and
involutional changes and she had evidence of a prior craniotomy
on the left. Slight asymmetry of the sulci versible since 7/25 .
Ventricles unchanged and within normal limits. She was seen by
the neurology service. They suggested continuing to follow her
neurological exam checking a lipid profile and involving physical
therapy in her care. On their neuro exam , they found that she
had a normal affect , slow procity and tone , a tendency to loose
her chain of thought. Cranial nerves II through XII intact. 4/5
weakness in the left quad and right hamstrings muscles otherwise
5/5 throughout. Upgoing toe on the right and muted on the left.
Otherwise reflexes 2 throughout bilateral sensation and they were
unable to walk the patient at that time.
2. Psych: She was seen by the psych service here. Speech ,
appearance , behavior and her initial mental status examination:
Appearance and behavior , he was slightly disheveled wearing
hospital gown , supine in bed , calm , some PMR. Speech was slow at
times and normal volume and tone. Mood was euthymic. Affect
restricted. Thought content , denied auditory hallucinations ,
visual hallucinations , suicidality , homicidality , however , she
did report that she had auditory and visual hallucinations the
night preceding the examination. Her thought process was
circumstantial. Her insight and judgment was impaired. She was
oriented to place , name , and time. Memory was 3/3 at 0 minutes ,
0/3 at 3 minutes , and 2/3 with multiple choice. Her language was
fluent. She knew the order of recent presidents. Their
impression was that she had an abnormal cognitive exam including
short-term memory and concentration deficits. Recent auditory
and visual hallucinations and delusions in the setting of her
elevated digoxin level and recent falls they did recommend
continued hospitalization and then rehabilitation.
AXIS I: Multifactorial acute delirium and depression and opioid
abuse by history.
AXIS II: Deferred.
AXIS III: Past medical history as described above.
AXIS IV: Severe.
AXIS V: 30.
They recommended treating the underlying causes of delirium ,
which did improve during the hospital stay using Zyprexa 5 mg
p.o. at bedtime , p.r.n. Klonopin with a slow taper. She had a CT
of the cervical spine without contrast. This showed cervical
spondylosis with reversal of normal cervical lordosis. No
evidence of fracture and left C4 , C5 foraminal lesion. C1
through C4 vertebral bodies were intact. No disc herniation ,
central foraminal stenosis at C5-C6 and the C7-T1 was
unremarkable.
Cardiovascular: Pump: She has a history of aortic root
dissection. Her echo in the past was consistent with aortic root
dilatation , stable. She is maintained on Coumadin for her
valves. Her goal INR is 2.5 to 3.5. Since she was
subtherapeutic at admission she was maintained on Lovenox until
her INR became therapeutic. Her goal INR is 2.5 to 3.5. Her
Coumadin doses were adjusted daily during her hospital stay and
will continue to need to be adjusted. She will need to continue
to have her INR checked daily and her dose generally has been
between 3.5 and 3.75 mg per day. This will need to continue to be
adjusted and the goal should be the higher end of 2.5 to 3.5.
Rhythm: She had a pacemaker placed in the past secondary to a
second-degree AV block. She was continued on her nadolol. Her
digoxin level was held since it was supratherapeutic at admission
and then restarted at 0.125 mg per day. Her digoxin level should
be followed at the skilled nursing facility. Ischemia: She has
no history of coronary artery disease. She is on Lipitor at
home. She was maintained on Zocor 20 mg here and she was not on
aspirin per Dr. Kush .
Endocrine: She has a history of diabetes mellitus. She was
maintained on her glyburide and she refused to have any insulin
during this admission.
GI: She has a history of GERD. She is on Protonix at home. She
was maintained on Nexium during her hospital stay. She was also
given a bowel regimen given her narcotics use.
Urology: She had a history of recent urinary retention in the
setting of narcotic use as well as taking a medication for
urinary incontinence. A urine culture taken on 10/26/06 grew out
greater than 100 , 000 colonies of E. coli that was pan
susceptible. She does have multiple medication allergies , but
she was started on ampicillin since she has taken this in the
past without difficulty.
Pain: She was seen by the pain service inhouse. They commented
that she had whole body pain , but was having difficulty
self-medicating appropriately. Suggested that she would be in an
environment where her medications could be controlled. They
recommended starting her on Cymbalta , generic name is duloxetine.
They recommended starting at 30 mg at bedtime and titrating up
gradually to 60 mg b.i.d. as tolerated. They also recommended a
Lidoderm patch to the tender area holding narcotics and they will
be happy to see this patient again once she is discharged.
Code: She is full code.
Prophylaxis: She was on Coumadin , Lovenox when her Coumadin was
subtherapeutic , and she was on a PPI.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE:
She was afebrile pulse ranging from 66 to 72. Blood pressure
ranging from 96 to 110/60 to 70 , respiratory rate 18 to 20 ,
satting 93%-98% on 4 L. General: Well appearing , in no acute
distress. Pulmonary: She had crackles at the bases bilaterally.
Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm with occasional ectopy.
Loud mechanical click. 2/6 systolic ejection murmur. JVP is
about 8 cm. Abdomen: Soft , nontender , positive bowel sounds.
Extremities: She has trace edema bilaterally.
DISCHARGE LABORATORIES:
Sodium 139 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 91 , CO2 43 , BUN 11 ,
creatinine 0.6 , glucose 181 , calcium 9.1 , magnesium 1.4 , digoxin
level 0.6 , white blood cell count 5.96 , hematocrit 35.1 ,
platelets 252 , 000. INR 3.5 , PTT 51.9.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Tylenol 1 g q. 4h. p.r.n. pain and headache , albuterol nebulizer
2.5 mg nebulizer q. 4h. p.r.n. shortness of breath and wheezing ,
amoxicillin 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. for a total of 8 additional doses
starting this evening of 8/21/06 , clonazepam 1 mg p.o. b.i.d.
p.r.n. for anxiety , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily should be
adjusted as needed based on levels , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. daily , ibuprofen
600 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. pain , milk of magnesia 30 ml p.o. daily
for constipation , nadolol 60 mg p.o. daily holding for a systolic
blood pressure below 100 or heart rate below 55 , timolol maleate
0.25% one drop each eye daily , potassium slow release 40 mEq
daily , Pepto-Bismol suspension 30 ml p.o. q.i.d. upset stomach ,
tramadol 50 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. for pain , Zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o.
b.i.d. p.r.n. agitation , latanoprost one drop each eye q.p.m. ,
brimonidine tartrate one drop each eye q. 8h. , Zydis 5 mg
sublingual at bedtime , Lidoderm 5% patch topical daily , Maalox
tablets one to two tablets p.o. p.r.n. q. 6h. for upset stomach ,
duloxetine 30 mg p.o. at bedtime , Lipitor at 10 mg p.o. daily ,
Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENT:
She has a follow-up appointment with Dr. Hoerter on 1/26/06 at
3:30 p.m. She will also need follow up with Dr. Kush to be
arrange.
This patient will be going to Viter Setter's Memorial Healthcare Center Kofsund Lane
TO DO:
1. INR: Her INR goal is 2.5 to 3.5 prefer the higher end of
that for her mechanical valves. She will need daily INR checks
given that she is not in a steady state. The likely dose of
Coumadin need to be 3.5 to 3.75 mg per day.
2. For her UTI , she needs an additional eight doses of
amoxicillin to complete her course of treatment.
3. Per the pain team , her duloxetine , which is now at 30 mg at
bedtime can be titrated as high as 60 mg b.i.d. as needed.
eScription document: 5-5457684 EMSSten Tel
CC: Viter Setter's Memorial Healthcare Center
Wa Fort Salt
Dictated By: TARBERT , BEATA
Attending: DELMENDO , CRISTINE
Dictation ID 9844160
D: 8/21/06
T: 8/21/06