378576931 | PUO | 59506466 | | 6678991 | 4/13/2005 12:00:00 AM | HEPATIC ABSCESS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/19/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/23/2005
ATTENDING: FREHSE , MARILYN MD
UMZEE MEDICAL CENTER
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 66-year-old female with a history of coronary artery
disease , chronic atrial fibrillation on Coumadin , pulmonary
hypertension , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism
who presented in 5/25 with an apparent perforated appendicitis
for which she was taken to the operating room. Final pathology
during this procedure was serositis. Her postoperative course
was complicated by severe delirium , atrial fibrillation ,
abdominal abscesses requiring IR drainage in 10/10 and 10/7 .
The patient began having recurrent UTI , decreased appetite and
hematochezia at this time. On 8/17/05 , a CT of the abdomen
showed evidence of a colovesical fistula and the patient was
admitted to the Arvai Sonprince Hospital for further management.
On admission , she was found to be in acute renal failure with a
creatinine of 2.3 apparently secondary to dehydration after
recently having been started on Lasix for hypertension by her
primary care physician.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Coronary artery disease.
2. Pulmonary hypertension.
3. Chronic atrial fibrillation , on Coumadin.
4. Hypercholesterolemia.
5. Asthma.
6. Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
7. Hypothyroidism.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Appendectomy in 5/25 .
MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
1. Atrovent b.i.d.
2. Metaxalone 2.5 mg daily.
3. Lipitor 10 mg daily.
4. Lasix 60 mg daily.
5. Atenolol 50 mg b.i.d.
6. Diltiazem 120 mg daily.
7. Potassium chloride 10 mg b.i.d.
8. Colace 100 mg t.i.d.
9. Folate.
10. Re1glan p.r.n.
11. Lisinopril 20 mg daily.
12. Wellbutrin 100 mg daily.
13. Protonix 40 mg daily.
14. Coumadin.
ALLERGIES:
No known drug allergies.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was admitted to the Survtheast Centex Health Care .  Her creatinine
improved with IV hydration on 3/25/05 .  She was taken to the
operating room for exploratory laparotomy , cystoscopy with
bilateral urinary stent placement , sigmoid colectomy with primary
anastomosis and diverting ileostomy. During the surgery , she
became hypotensive requiring pressors due to inability to replace
IV fluid adequately. She was transferred to the surgical
intensive care unit , intubated on pressors. For the first
several days , she had a inflammatory response-type picture with
significant vasodilation requiring pressors and massive IV
resuscitation greater than 30 liters of fluid. Sedation was
slowly weaned as the patient's respiratory status improved. Due
to a question of responsiveness during the first several days , a
head CT was performed which showed no evidence of stroke. She
became slowly more responsive as sedation was weaned with the use
of Precedex and was extubated on 1/22/05 , postoperative day 7
without complications. Her mental status in the intensive care
unit continued to improve. The remainder of the patient's
hospital course will be dictated via systems.
Neurologically , at the time of transfer out of the ICU , the
patient was noted to have subtly improving mental status. Her
family described her at baseline. During her stay on the floor ,
her Zyprexa dose was decreased. She had no further neurologic
issues.
Cardiovascular: In the intensive care unit , the patient required
vasopressin initially and was weaned off during the first three
or four days. Her chronic atrial fibrillation continued. She
was transferred out of the intensive care unit on IV Lopressor
which was gradually converted to p.o. as she tolerated a regular
diet. She was discharged on 100 mg q.i.d. of Lopressor.
Respiratory: In the intensive care unit , she was noted to have
respiratory failure initially secondary to a SIRS picture and
fluid overload. This significantly improved with diuresis. She
was transferred out on a nasal cannula. On the floor , she had no
respiratory issues. She continued her aggressive chest physical
therapy and was out of bed with physical therapist.
GI: In the Intensive Care Unit , the patient was noted to have a
postoperative ileus. She did not tolerate NG tube feeds. A post
pyloric Dobhoff was eventually placed and tube feeds were
initiated. After transfer out of the intensive care unit , the
patient had difficulty with her Dobhoff catheter and eventually
became clogged and had to be removed. A speech and swallow
evaluation was obtained. A bedside swallow was equivocal and a
fiberoptic swallow was done. She passed this with fine colors
per the speech and swallow team and they recommended that her
diet be advanced as tolerated. She was discharged to
rehabilitation on a regular diet.
GU: In the Intensive Care Unit , she was massively resuscitated
initially and then diuresed for virtually the remainder of her
hospital course. An initial Lasix drip was then changed to IV
Lasix boluses. She was discharged on p.o. Lasix at an equivalent
dose to her standing Lasix during her hospitalization. A
cystogram was obtained prior to her discharge to rehab at the
time of dictation. The result of the cystogram are not
available. If no extravasation is noted , her Foley catheter can
be removed at rehabilitation. If extravasation is noted , she
will need to undergo a repeat cystogram at some point in the
future prior to removal of her Foley catheter.
Heme: The patient was initially on subcu heparin due to concern
for bleeding. She was then started on a heparin drip and was
discovered that she had bilateral lower extremity partial DVTs.
Her heparin drip was titrated to a PTT of 60 to 80 prior to
discharge to rehab. Her heparin was discontinued and she was
started on Lovenox as a bridge to coumadinization. Her Coumadin
began during the few days prior to her discharge when she was
tolerating p.o. intake.
ID: Due to the colovesical fistula , concern for some liver
opacities on her original abdominal CTs , she was placed on
broad-spectrum antibiotics perioperatively. All antibiotics were
removed on 1/22/05 .  She was noted to have a candidal UTI ,
completed a five-day course of fluconazole. A small fever in the
Intensive Care Unit warranted blood cultures being sent and
repeat blood cultures on 10/4/05 eventually noted a
gram-positive cocci. It was felt that this was likely due to a
contaminant as the patient by that time had been afebrile for
several days. However , she was started on vancomycin for
gram-positive cocci , bacteremia. Her central line was removed
and a new central line was placed and she was discharged to rehab
on day 9 of 14 of IV vancomycin via her central line. After the
completion of this course of therapy , her central line may be
removed at rehabilitation.
Wound: Due to some drainage from abdominal wound due to her fat
necrosis , the lower portion of the wound was opened. There was
no evidence of active infection noted and a Vac sponge was placed
initially on 10/4/05 to facilitate the healing process. The Vac
was changed every three days during her stay. This most recent
change was on 10/30/05 .
DISCHARGE CONDITION:
Stable.
DISPOSITION:
Rehabilitation.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
As indicated on the discharge orders sheet.
eScription document: 4-0875054 EMS
Dictated By: MCRORIE , DENISHA
Attending: FREHSE , MARILYN
Dictation ID 1867475
D: 6/5/05
T: 6/5/05