381967820 | PUO | 02433774 | | 733936 | 3/5/1990 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 11/23/1990 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 1/3/1990
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 39 year old Moottee Fallssquite Go
female with a history of discoid lupus
and pericarditis , who presents with severe substernal chest pain
after having prednisone and Plaquenil discontinued. She first
developed discoid lupus in 1983. She subsequently over the years
developed arthralgias of various joints , was treated with aspirin ,
Motrin and steroids. In 1985 , she developed pleuritic substernal
chest pain. She was diagnosed at Bussadd Southrys Community Hospital with pericarditis
and underwent pericardiocentesis. In 1988 , she was seen at the
Arthritis Clinic by Dr. Loden , who noted a discoid lupus on
examination , a mild anemia , sedimentation rate 85 , CH-50 178 , VNA
positive at 1:160 , positive anti-double-stranded DNA and 3+
positive Smith/anti-Smith antibody. She was treated with Plaquenil
200 bid , plus aspirin and Naprosyn. In 5 of October , she was diagnosed
with a lupus flare and was put on prednisone 30 q am. She did well
and in 24 of October the steroids were tapered off and discontinued.
However , she presented with substernal chest pain at that time and
had her prednisone restarted. She was put on another prednisone
taper. In 23 of March , she had a negative brain magnetic resonance
imaging. In 21 of April , she had an echocardiogram which showed
pericardial thickening without evidence of constriction consistent
with prior pericarditis. Over the following several months , she
had occasional flares because of medical noncompliance. She was
put on Plaquenil 200 bid , which was increased to tid , and Motrin
800 bid. In 2 of January , she again came to the emergency room with
substernal chest pain and a mild pulsus paradoxus , no jugular
venous distention. An electrocardiogram was without change. Chest
x-ray showed slight increase in the heart size. She was placed on
prednisone 30 q day , Tylenol with codeine and did well. On
16 of October , she was seen in the clinic and had substernal chest pain
consistent with pericardial pain , dyspnea on exertion , increased
arthralgias secondary to discontinuing her steroids. At that time ,
she had her Plaquenil and prednisone restarted. Over the last 3
weeks prior to admission she noticed that the prednisone and
Plaquenil increased stomachaches and she stopped the medication.
Over the last 7 days prior to admission , she has had increasing
dyspnea on exertion and substernal chest pain , which is sharp ,
increases with cough or deep breaths. She denied any orthopnea or
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , palpitations or syncope. She has no
nausea , vomiting , fevers , chills or melena. She does have
increasing joint pain. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY revealed seizure
disorder with Dilantin , hypothyroidism treated with L-thyroxine ,
iron deficiency anemia without prior work-up , thoracic spine
compression fractures , gastritis questionably secondary to
Naprosyn. She has no known ALLERGIES. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION
were Plaquenil 200 bid , Motrin 80 tid , prednisone 10 q am , Dilantin
400 q am , L-thyroxine 0.2 q day , folate 1 mg po q day , iron sulfate
225 tid , Diprosone Ointment bid. She does not smoke or drink.
FAMILY HISTORY is negative for collagen vascular diseases. She is
the mother of 5 children.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was an obese Hispanic female in mild
distress. Temperature was 99 , pulse 60 ,
blood pressure 130/70 , respirations 18 , pulsus paradoxus of 10.
Skin showed numerous discoid lesions of the scalp , face and right
forearm and lower extremities with patchy alopecia. Head , eyes ,
ears , nose and throat examination was unremarkable. Neck was
supple , no adenopathy noted. Chest was clear. Cardiac examination
showed regular rate and rhythm , normal S1 , S2 , with a I/VI systolic
ejection murmur at the left lower sternal border , otherwise no rubs
or gallops. Back showed no costovertebral angle or spinal
tenderness. Abdominal examination was benign , liver is 10 cm , and
the spleen tip is not palpable. Rectal examination was guaiac
negative , soft brown stools. She does have external hemorrhoids.
Extremities were negative without cords or Homan's sign. Neurologic
examination was grossly intact , with normal cranial nerve function ,
motor , sensory , coordination and deep tendon reflexes , except for
question of slight slowing of the relaxation phase of the reflexes
in the upper and lower extremities. Musculoskeletal examination
showed diffuse bilateral asymmetric synovial thickening with
slightly decreased range of motion most notably in the right elbow ,
right metacarpophalangeal joint , left carpal , bilateral knees and
ankles.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Electrolytes were all within normal
limits. Her CK was 76. Dilantin level
5.6. White count was 4.7 , hematocrit 30 , platelets 352 , 000 , mean
corpuscular volume 83 , ESR 88 , oxygen saturation 99% on room air.
Urinalysis showed specific gravity 1.026 , 2+ protein , 10 to 15
white cells , 8 to 10 red blood cells and a few granular casts.
Chest x-ray showed increased heart size , otherwise negative , no
change from 2 of January .  She does have multiple thoracic compression
fractures and osteopenia. The electrocardiogram showed sinus
rhythm with frequent premature ventricular contractions at a rate
of approximately 70 , positive 45 degree axis , normal intervals ,
T-wave inversion in III and V2 through V3 without changes in the PR
or ST segments compared with 2 of January , and no decrease in the
voltages.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Problem #1 was substernal chest pain. This
seemed to be a pericardial pain secondary to
discontinuation of her prednisone and Plaquenil as it happened
numerous times in the past. She was ruled out for a myocardial
infarction. She had an echocardiogram which showed a small amount
of pericardial fluid without evidence of right ventricular
indentation or compromise. She was placed back on her Plaquenil
200 bid , and prednisone 30 q day and did well in that regard.
Problem #2 was decreased hematocrit. This was felt to be probably
secondary to hydration as the hematocrit on hospital day #2 went
from 31 to 27 with several liters of intravenous fluid. Stool
guaiacs were negative throughout the hospitalization. The
hematocrit remained stable between 27 and 30 without transfusions
or further intervention. She did have a Coombs test sent which was
mildly positive , although her hematocrit was stable. She was
discharged on folate and iron. Problem #3 is hematuria and pyuria
at the time of admission. Urine culture and urine gram stain were
both negative for infection and this was followed up with a 24-hour
urine collection for protein to assess for potential lupus
involvement of the kidney , and this will need to be followed up on.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged for FOLLOW-UP in
Rheumatology Clinic with Dr. Loden . MEDICATIONS
ON DISCHARGE included Plaquenil 200 bid , prednisone 20 q day ,
Dilantin 400 q day , L-thyroxine 0.2 q am , Motrin 800 tid , Carafate ,
iron and folate.
________________________________ QB917/3517
ELA LODEN , M.D. GG0 D: 5/2/90
Batch: 3737 Report: B5122Q43 T: 10/10/90
Dictated By: DESIRAE MARCOTT , M.D.