977295686 | PUO | 66017686 | | 3889598 | 9/10/2006 12:00:00 AM | AORTIC STENOSIS | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 5/5/2006 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 1/29/2007
ATTENDING: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON MD
PRINCIPAL ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Severe aortic stenosis and
congestive heart failure.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Briefly , Ms. Mcguffee is an
81-year-old female with a known history of severe aortic stenosis
and multiple medical comorbidities who had been transferred from
an outside hospital to the Coronary Care Unit for
congestive heart failure likely related to overwhelming aortic
disease. She had previously declined aortic valve replacement in
the year prior to her admission. She had an echo performed at
outside hospital just prior to admission to Pagham University Of showed an EF of 55-60% with severe aortic stenosis , an
aortic valve area of 0.6 cm square as well as 1+ mitral regurg
and 1-2+ tricuspid regurg. She was admitted to the medical
service at PUO where she was aggressively diuresed. She was also
prepared for urgent aortic valve replacement and possible
coronary artery bypass grafting. At the time of her admission ,
her past medical history included hypertension , peripheral
vascular disease , history of stroke with left upper extremity
sensory loss , diabetes type 2 , hypothyroidism ,
hypercholesterolemia , renal failure with bilateral renal artery
stenosis , parkinsonianism , iron-deficiency anemia , vitamin B12
deficiency , obstructive sleep apnea , seizure disorder and colon
cancer status post resection in 1987. She is unable to elaborate
on the details of that resection. She also had renal artery
stenting in 2005.
ALLERGIES: Stated allergies at the time of admission included
Lipitor for which she had myalgias and an erythromycin with a
reaction of which was unknown.
MEDICATIONS: Her admission medications include labetolol 150
p.o. daily , amlodipine 5 mg p.o. daily , Isordil 30 mg p.o.
t.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , Plavix 75 mg daily , Coumadin 5
p.o. daily , Lasix 60 mg twice a day , Colace 100 mg twice a day ,
iron sulfate 325 once a day , folic acid 1 mg p.o. once day ,
hydralazine 25 mg daily and Synthroid 88 mcg daily as well as
Dilantin 300 mg p.o. twice a day.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: At the time of admission , her physical
exam showed a woman 5 feet 1 inches tall , weighing 94 kilos in
obvious mild respiratory distress. Her temperature was 97 and heart
rate was 83 and sinus. Her blood pressure in the right arm was
120/63 , in the left arm was 109/53. She was on 5L of nasal
cannula while satting 99%. The remainder of her physical exam was
notable only for a loud holosystolic murmur at the right upper
sternal border and radiation to her both carotid arteries. Her
Allen's test showed severely dampened waveform in both left and
right radial arteries. Her chest sounded congested with rales
present bilaterally and her extremities showed 1-2+ bilateral
lower extremity edema. Her carotid , radial and femoral arteries
were all 2+ , but her dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial were
present only by Doppler bilaterally.
LABORATORY DATA: Notable lab data at the time of admission
included a BUN and creatinine of 79 and 3.1 respectively and a
beta natriuretic peptide of 39 , 085. Cardiac catheterization performed on
9/10/06 showed 60% lesion of the ostial LAD as well as an 80% proximal LAD
lesion. She also had 90% ostial D1 and a 40% ostial OM1 lesion and right
dominant circulation. Her echo on 5/26/06 showed an ejection fraction of
60% , severe aortic stenosis with a mean gradient of 60 mmHg and a
peak gradient of 99 mmHg. Again her calculated valve area is 0.6
cm square. Her chest x-ray on 5/26/06 was consistent with
congestive heart failure and appeared very fluid overloaded. She
was taken on 9/10/06 to the operating room where aortic valve
replacement with aortic root patch was performed , 21 Biocor
porcine graft was inserted. She also had a two-vessel coronary
artery bypass grafting using vein to her left anterior descending
and vein grafting to her D1 vessel. She tolerated the procedure
relatively well , but her ensuing ICU course was protracted and
very complicated and will be summarized systematically.
Neurologically , the patient suffered no acute complications
postoperatively; however , her state of consciousness waxed and
waned with her overall condition.
From a cardiovascular standpoint , the patient suffered a perioperative MI in
the late hours of 9/10/06 and on to the early hours of 5/17/06 .  She also
went into atrial fibrillation on postoperative day two and
suffered rhythm abnormalities for the remainder of her
postoperative course. Multiple conversion attempts were made
both pharmaceutically as well as with electrocardioversion , but
she occasionally did covert to normal sinus rhythm. Ultimately ,
she reverted back into atrial fibrillation. The third
postoperative day , she became hypotensive and asystolic. Chest
compressions were initiated for less than one minute at which
time atrial pacing was initiated and her rhythm was regained with
adequate blood pressure , though she was returned on to several
days of active drips to support her blood pressure. From this
point , Ms. Mcguffee developed dependence on pressors and inotropic
agents to support her blood pressure and cardiovascular system.
After several months with no real recovery of her cardiovascular
status , the family decided to withdraw care and put her on
comfort measures only. She ultimately suffered a cardiac arrest
on 1/16/07 .
From a pulmonary perspective , while she was extubated on the morning of
postoperative day #2 , she was ultimately reintubated and several pulmonary
complications required multiple bronchoscopies , multiple thoracentesis on both
chest for recurrent effusions and several chest tubes had to be placed for
aforementioned effusions. She was ultimately trached by the third
week and although she did occasionally come off the ventilator at
times , she never displayed adequate pulmonary function to be free
from vent dependence for any length of time.
From a GI perspective , with her trach , she underwent a percutaneous
endoscopic gastrostomy tube for enteral feeds and at times needed to be
placed on total parenteral nutrition as she only occassionally tolerated
tube feeds. She did develop a Clostridium difficile infection
and had to be placed on long-term TPN until resolution of that
infection.
Her renal status at baseline was poor , though she was not on dialysis.
Postoperatively , she never recovered any meaningful renal function of her own.
She was placed on continuous venovenous hemodialysis by the third
week ultimately became anuric , requiring triweekly hemodialysis on Monday ,
Wednesday and Friday , a schedule she was managed on until the time of her
death.
From an ID standpoint , she developed many bacteremias and GI
infections as previously discussed. The Infectious Disease Team
was involved in her care and there recommendations were followed
throughout her hospitalization. For the greater duration of her
ICU course , she was maintained on vancomycin , levofloxacin and
Flagyl on and off for multiple infections.
From an endocrine standpoint , she was maintained on her Synthroid dosing and
was on a CZI drip for blood sugar control throughout her ICU course.
Hematologically , the patient was transfused many many blood
products over the course of her ICU stay. She also developed
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and subsequent clots to her left
lower extremity requiring vascular surgery intervention. She had
embolectomy and thrombectomy of her left common femoral artery as
well as a left common femoral endarterectomy with patch
angioplasty on 3/13/06 .  She was maintained on bivalirudin and
Coumadin throughout her ICU course.
Given her preoperative status and multiple medical comorbidities as well as her
overall poor prognosis through many postsurgical complications , a family
meeting on 10/12/07 resulted in decision to withdraw support and provide
comfort measures only. At that time , tube feeds were stopped , hemodialysis was
stopped
and the patient was made comfortable with morphine until her
ultimate cardiac arrest at 0235 am on 1/16/07 .
eScription document: 0-2080012 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: GREENFELDER , SILVIA
Attending: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON
Dictation ID 6155910
D: 1/1/07
T: 8/19/07