516880662 | PUO | 11923443 | | 747279 | 6/13/2001 12:00:00 AM | UROSEPSIS , MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/13/2001 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/28/2001
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. BKA.
2. E. COLI UROSEPSIS.
3. NON-Q-WAVE MI.
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS: 1. MORBID OBESITY.
2. PULMONARY EDEMA.
3. PULMONARY HYPERTENSION.
4. RULE OUT PE.
5. OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA.
6. ACUTE RENAL FAILURE.
This is the third I Warho Hospital hospitalization for
this 46-year-old morbidly obese female with a history of
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus complicated by BKA on two prior
occasions , admitted to the MICU with BKA , urosepsis , and a
non-Q-wave MI. On presentation to the Emergency Department , the
patient was confused and therefore proved to be a difficult
historian , but she complained of four days of epigastric pain with
radiation under her right breast. She also complained of abdominal
pain for 4-5 days associated with nausea , but denied vomiting ,
diarrhea , constipation , hematochezia , or melena. In addition , she
complained of some dysuria for the same time period , as well as
subjective fevers , but denied cough , shortness of breath , or any
prior history of heart disease or chest pain.
On presentation to the Emergency Department , her vital signs were
notable for a blood pressure of 189/92 , pulse rate of 120 ,
respiratory rate of 20 , and an O2 sat of 90%. She was found to
have a finger stick blood glucose of 354 , a positive urinalysis ,
and an EKG that was concerning for ischemia. She was started on IV
insulin , given sublingual nitroglycerin x three , 4 mg of morphine ,
5 mg of Lopressor , and started on a heparin drip and IV
antibiotics , and admitted to the MICU for further management.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ,
with a history of BKA in October 1992 in the
setting of E. coli sepsis of unclear source , history of BKA in
October 2001 in the setting of MS Contin withdrawal. 2.
Hypertension. 3. Iron deficiency anemia. 4. Fibroids. 5.
Status post C-section complicated by wound infection and
dehiscence. 6. Sciatica and low back pain secondary to disc
herniation.
MEDICATIONS: The patient was unable to provide the dose of her
medications , but her medication list on admission
included insulin , amitriptyline , Flexeril , Valium , Prozac , and
albuterol and Atrovent inhalers.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
FAMILY HISTORY: Patient was unable to provide significant details
of her family history.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Notable for positive tobacco use , approximately
one cigarette per day. She was unable to say for
how many years. Positive ethanol use , approximately one drink per
week. She denied IV drug use or other illicit drug use. She is
married and has three children.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As noted in the HPI.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs on admission to the MICU:
Temperature 103.7 , pulse 110 , blood pressure
125/55 , respiratory rate 34 , O2 sat 95% on 2 L. In general , she
was an obese African American female who was confused , but alert
and oriented x two. HEENT: Pupils were equal , round , and reactive
to light. Extraocular movements were intact. Oropharynx was dry
and was notable for a fruity odor. LUNGS: Clear to auscultation
bilaterally. NECK: Supple. CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and
rhythm , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops , with normal S1 and S2.
ABDOMEN: Obese , positive bowel sounds , soft , nondistended ,
positive tenderness in the left lower quadrant , with no guarding or
rebound. EXTREMITIES: 2+ distal pulses , 1+ edema. RECTAL EXAM:
Guaiac negative , with normal tone per ED physician.
LABS: Sodium 139 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 105 , bicarb 19 , BUN 37 ,
creatinine 2.1 ( increased from her baseline of 1.4 ) , glucose
379 , calcium 8.1 , magnesium 2.1 , phosphorus 3 , ALT 33 , AST 56 , alk
phos 119 , T bili 1.0 , amylase 13 , lipase 3 , white blood cell count
14.7 , with 85% polys , 9 bands , and 4 lymphocytes , hematocrit 34.1 ,
platelets 122 , PT 14.2 , PTT 29.1 , INR 1.3 , ABG T at 7.4 , PCO2 32 ,
PO2 82 , O2 saturation 96% , CK 12-35 , MB 1.5 , troponin 1.52 , beta
hydroxybutyrate .7. Positive ACE test. Urine and serum toxicology
screens negative. Urinalysis was notable for a pH of 5.5 , specific
gravity of 1.02 , 3+ protein , 3+ glucose , 1+ ketones , 3+ bloods ,
positive leuk esterase and nitrites , 45-50 white blood cells , 3-4
red blood cells , 3+ bacteria , and 1+ squamous epithelium. Urine
beta-hCG was negative. The chest x-ray showed cephalization and
interstitial edema. Her initial EKG showed .5-1 mm ST depressions
in leads 1 and aVL , 1 mm ST elevations in leads V1 and V2 ,
flattened T waves in leads 1 , aVL , V2 , and V3.
SUMMARY: This is a 42-year-old morbidly obese female with a
history of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
complicated by BKA on two prior occasions , who was admitted to the
MICU with a BKA in the setting of urosepsis and a non-Q-wave MI.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Her hospital course by systems is as follows:
1. ENDOCRINE: As noted above , the patient
presented with BKA in the setting of urosepsis and a non-Q-wave MI.
She was placed on an insulin drip and hydrated with intravenous
fluids , with improvement. She was eventually transitioned to NPH
with insulin sliding scale coverage. Despite escalating her dose
of NPH up to 65 U subcu b.i.d. on the day of discharge , she
continued to have elevated blood sugars &gt;200 and required coverage
with insulin sliding scale. This issue will need to be addressed
as an outpatient.
2. PULMONARY: Posthydration , the patient was noted to have
increasing respiratory rates and O2 requirements and rales on exam.
As her creatinine had improved concurrent with hydration , she was
gently diuresed. An echocardiogram was obtained to assess her left
ventricular function in the context of her non-Q-wave MI , which was
notable for normal left ventricular function , with an EF of 50% ,
hypokinesis of the inferior septum , a right ventricle that was
mildly enlarged , with mildly decreased systolic function , normal
aortic valve , mild TR , and mild MR , and a pulmonary artery pressure
of 39 mm of mercury plus right atrial pressure consistent with
pulmonary hypertension and no pericardial effusion. With her body
habitus putting her at risk for DVT and PE , an echocardiogram which
showed evidence of pulmonary hypertension raised the concern for PE
being responsible for her symptoms of tachypnea and tachycardia. A
spiral CT was obtained that was nondiagnostic secondary to her body
habitus. A VQ scan was obtained , which was read as low probability
for PE. In addition , she also had negative LENIs. These studies
taken together alleviated the concern of PE or DVT in her. It was
felt that the patient likely had obstructive sleep apnea secondary
to her body habitus. She was maintained on CPAP during her
hospitalization stay; however , the patient informed the treating
team that she would not be using a CPAP machine once she returned
home secondary to the inconvenience and discomfort.
3. ID: On admission to MICU , given her positive urinalysis , she
was placed on cefotaxime for gram negative coverage. Both her
blood cultures and urine cultures grew out E. coli which were
sensitive to cefotaxime and gentamycin. As she initially continued
to be febrile and continued to have positive blood cultures , one
dose of gentamycin was given for synergy. Subsequently , she
improved. She remains on IV cefotaxime for the 7-day period that
she was in the MICU. On transfer to the floor , she was switched to
p.o. levofloxacin and will take 7 days of p.o. levofloxacin to
complete a total 14-day course of antibiotics for urosepsis.
4. CARDIOVASCULAR: Patient ruled in for a non-Q-wave MI by EKG
and enzymes. Her peak CK was 1200 , with a troponin of 1.52. She
was initially placed on aspirin , heparin , and a beta blocker. Once
her creatinine normalized , an ACE inhibitor was also added.
Heparin was discontinued once the concern for PE was alleviated.
Her beta blocker and ACE inhibitor were titrated up for a goal
systolic blood pressure of &lt;140 and a pulse of &lt;70. She was
transferred to the floor on hospital day 7 , where she remained
stable. Another guanosine MIBI was obtained , as the patient
reported that she would be unable to exercise , given her chronic
low back pain and sciatica. A planar study was done secondary to
her body habitus , which revealed a moderate sized area of prior
myocardial infarction throughout the mid LAD coronary territory ,
with moderate residual peri-infarct ischemia. The Cardiology
Service did not feel that the degree of this lesion warranted
catheterization , given the sizable risk of catheterization in her.
5. RENAL: On presentation , the patient had a creatinine of 2.1 ,
up from her baseline of 1.4. She was felt to have acute renal
failure , secondary dehydration , in the setting of diabetic
ketoacidosis. She was rehydrated and concurrent with this her
creatinine returned to her baseline and remained stable thereafter.
6. GI: On admission to the MICU , the patient was placed on GI
prophylaxis with Carafate. Once she was tolerating p.o.'s , she was
placed on an ADA diet and her Carafate was discontinued prior to
discharge. Once transferred to the floor , the patient complained
of diarrhea; however , the nurses did not witness and were unable to
obtain a stool sample to check for C. diff toxin. Patient was
treated symptomatically with Imodium p.r.n. diarrhea. Prior to
discharge , the patient was counseled by the Nutrition Service
regarding an appropriate diabetic and coronary artery disease diet.
7. PAIN: On admission , the patient was on several pain medicines ,
including amitriptyline , Flexeril , and Valium for reported history
of sciatica and low back pain. On this hospitalization , these
medications were discontinued and she was placed on Neurontin for
likely diabetic neuropathy.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,
NPH Humulin insulin 65 U subcu b.i.d. ,
human insulin sliding scale: for blood sugars 151-200 give 4 U ,
for blood sugars 201-250 give 6 U , for blood sugars 251-300 give 8
U , for blood sugars 301-350 give 10 U , Imodium 2 mg p.o. q. 6 hrs.
p.r.n. diarrhea , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nitroglycerin 1/150
one tab sublingual q. 5 min. x 3 p.r.n. chest pain , multivitamin
one tab p.o. q.d. , simvastatin 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Neurontin 600 mg
p.o. t.i.d. , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. x 5 days , Toprol XL 400
mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d.
CONDITION UPON DISCHARGE: Stable.
DISPOSITION: Prior to discharge , the patient was evaluated by the
physical therapist , who noted her to walk around the
hospital Poncepor Ro without significant problems. They felt that she
would be safe to discharge to home and did not need home PT , but
agreed that she would benefit from cardiac rehab , for which she was
referred. Patient was discharged to home on hospital day 9 , with
VNA , who will monitor her blood pressure , pulse , and blood sugar ,
and contact her PCP with any concerns or questions. She will
follow up with her PCP , Dr. Christy Clardy , at TEVH in one week's
time , and she will follow up with Dr. Christeen Jacobson of cardiology
at I Warho Hospital in April .
Dictated By: ROSSIE VANDUYNE , M.D. I
Attending: SACHIKO BORRIELLO , M.D. WJ71  HN198/594484
Batch: 74915 Index No. RHEDVM2RHH D: 4/18/01
T: 4/18/01