387532293 | PUO | 85861482 | | 6973837 | 10/19/2006 12:00:00 AM | SYNCOPE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/20/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 8/6/2006
ATTENDING: PART , JACKSON MD
SERVICE: Cardiology Ottejer Pidsence Liet Pervcho
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Myocardial infarction.
ADDITIONAL DIAGNOSES: Hypertension and diabetes.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 75-year-old male
with history of coronary artery disease , hypertension ,
hyperlipidemia who presented with chest pain. The patient was
running up and down the steps on the day of admission when he
developed an 8/10 substernal chest pain radiating to his left
arm. The patient denies any associated shortness of breath , but
he did note diaphoresis. The pain persisted for about 20
minutes. The patient called the EMS but by time he was calling
EMS the pain was dissipating. The patient reports no chest pain
since his last non-ST elevation MI in 2001. Of note , the patient
is a very poor historian and has no recollection of past medical
history or medications. In the emergency room , the patient was
presented with the blood pressure of 172/79 , heart rate of 88 ,
and was given IV metoprolol and aspirin. The patient's blood
pressure was difficult to control and he received additional IV
Lopressor , hydralazine , and nitro paste.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hypertension.
2. CAD status post MI in 2001.
3. History of stroke.
4. Diabetes , last hemoglobin A1c of 6.9 in September 2005.
5. Hyperlipidemia.
6. Prostate cancer status post XRT in 1999.
7. History of CKD with baseline creatinine of about 1.3.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Metformin 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2. Zocor 80 mg p.o. daily at bedtime.
3. Monopril 40 mg p.o. daily.
4. Glyburide 10 mg p.o. once daily.
5. Omeprazole 20 mg p.o. once daily.
6. Felodipine 10 mg p.o. once daily.
7. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. once daily.
8. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. once daily.
9. NPH 10 units subcutaneously each evening.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a retired truck driver who lives
with his second wife in His The patient
has a history of alcohol and tobacco use but quit about five
years ago. The patient denies any drug use.
FAMILY HISTORY: The patient has a sister with heart disease in
her 40s.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Vital Signs: Temperature
97.4 , heart rate 69 , blood pressure 160/70 , respiratory rate 14 ,
sating 90% on 2 liters nasal cannula. In general , the patient
was awake , alert , and in no acute distress , but answered the
questions slowly and had an unusual affect. HEENT: Pupils were
equal , round , and reactive to light. Mucous membranes were moist
and oropharynx was clear. Neck: JVP less than 10 cm , supple , no
lymphadenopathy. Pulmonary exam: Lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Cardiovascular exam revealed normal
S1 , S2 with no murmurs , rubs , or gallops. Abdomen was obese ,
soft , nontender , nondistended with positive bowel sounds.
Extremities were warm and well perfused without edema. The
patient had 1+ distal pulses bilaterally. Neurologic exam
revealed cranial nerves II-XII were intact. Exam was otherwise
nonfocal.
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: The basic metabolic panel ( BMP )
was notable for BUN and creatinine of 28 and 1.6 , magnesium of
1.5. CBC revealed a white count of 7.6 with a hematocrit of 43.6
and platelet count 194. Cardiac enzymes were as follows , the
patient initially had a CPK of 84 with an MB fraction of 1.4 , and
troponin level was less than assay. The patient's desat had a
total CK of 88 and a CK-MB of 2.1 and troponin was 0.58. Chest
x-ray had no infiltrates , no effusions. EKG revealed normal
sinus rhythm with PACs , normal axis intervals , with some T-wave
flattening in V5 , V6 , 1 and aVL.
IMPRESSION: The patient is a 75-year-old male with known CAD
status post MI in 2001 status post an RCA stent at that time. It
was thought unlikely that the patient had flow-limiting coronary
artery disease leading to a non-ST elevation MI.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Cardiovascular:
Ischemia: The patient's chest pain was concerning for
flow-limiting coronary artery disease. The patient was continued
on aspirin and loaded with Plavix upon admission. The patient
was anticoagulated with 1 mg/kg doses of Lovenox q.12h. The
patient was started on a beta-blocker and given 80 mg of Lipitor.
The patient underwent a diagnostic cardiac catheterization on
the day of admission , which showed a right dominant system with
no significant left main lesions. The patient did have a
proximal 90% LAD lesion as well as a proximal left circumflex
lesion estimated to be about 80%. The patient also had mid
circumflex lesion that was also estimated at 80%. The right
coronary artery had a proximal 50% diffuse lesion and a distal
40% tubular lesion. Right PDA had a tubular 90% lesion in the
mid portion as well as a 90% discrete lesion in the proximal PA.
As the patient was found to have three-vessel disease and a
history of diabetes , surgical revascularization was considered.
The patient was evaluated by the cardiothoracic surgical service
who discussed the case at length with the attending cardiologist
on service. In the end , it was decided by both the attending
cardiologist and the attending cardiothoracic surgeon in contact
with the patient and his wife that the best option at this time
was for percutaneous intervention as it was thought that the
patient would have significant difficulty postoperatively because
of his significant dementia. We felt that the patient would have
a difficult time with the necessary rehabilitation following CABG
and that percutaneous intervention would indeed be the best
option. Therefore , the patient underwent a repeat cardiac
catheterization. The patient had a Cypher stent placed to the
mid LAD lesion. The OM2 lesion was also stented with a Cypher
stent across the non-diseased ostium of OM1 and then the proximal
left circumflex lesion was also stented with a Cypher stent. The
final angiograms during this catheterization showed no residual
stenosis or dissection. The plan was for the patient to return
on an outpatient basis for potential percutaneous intervention to
the PDA/PLV and a stenting of the left renal artery which was
found to be stenotic and likely contributing to the patient's
refractory hypertension and chronic kidney disease. The patient
did well following his percutaneous interventions and he was
discharged on a regimen including aspirin , Plavix , Toprol , and
Zocor. The patient will follow up with Dr. Self in the
next few weeks for possible repeat percutaneous intervention.
Pump: The patient has no history of CHF. An echocardiogram
during this admission revealed moderate concentric LVH with basal
anterior septum basal inferior segment hypokinesis. Ejection
fraction was estimated at 60%. The patient remained euvolemic
for the remainder of the admission. The patient was continued on
his dose of ACE inhibitor. The patient has a long history of
refractory hypertension. The patient's hypertension was likely
exacerbated by a left renal artery stenosis found on his cardiac
catheterization. The patient was continued on his home blood
pressure regimen and additional agents were used as needed to
control his blood pressure. The patient was discharged on a
blood pressure regimen that include felodipine 10 mg p.o. once
daily , Toprol-XL 150 p.o. once daily , isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg
p.o. q.8h. , and Monopril 40 mg p.o. once daily. Of note , the
patient was on hydrochlorothiazide as an outpatient but this was
held as he recently received multiple doses of IV contrast. The
patient's hydrochlorothiazide can be restarted by his primary
care physician after ensuring that his creatinine is okay.
Rhythm: The patient was monitored on telemetry during this
admission and had no issues.
2. Renal: The patient has a history of chronic kidney disease
with a baseline creatinine 1.3 to 1.6. The patient received
Mucomyst and sodium bicarbonate. Continue IV fluids in the peri
catheterization period. The patient's creatinine remained within
his baseline range throughout this admission. The creatinine at
the time of discharge was 1.5.
3. Endocrine: The patient has a history of diabetes , which was
controlled with both insulin and oral agents. Oral agents were
held during this hospitalization and the patient was managed with
both long and short acting insulin. The patient's blood sugars
were well controlled and he was discharged on his home regimen
including metformin , glyburide , and nightly NPH.
4. Neurology: The patient has a history of dementia , which was
thought to be multiinfarct in nature. The patient did have
several episodes of agitation and sundowning during this
admission. The patient required medications to control these ,
rather he was oriented and spoke with his wife on several
occasions. The patient had a workup for reversible causes of
dementia including a TSH , B12 , and an RPR. The TSH and B12 were
within normal limits. The RPR was pending at the time of this
dictation.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. once daily.
2. NPH 10 units subq daily at bedtime.
3. Isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg p.o. q.8h.
4. Nitroglycerin 1/150 one tab sublingual q.5 minutes x3 p.r.n.
chest pain.
5. Felodipine 10 mg p.o. once daily.
6. Plavix 75 mg p.o. once daily.
7. Toprol-XL 150 mg p.o. once daily.
8. Metformin 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d.
9. Zocor 80 mg p.o. daily at bedtime.
10. Omeprazole 20 mg p.o. once daily.
11. Glyburide 10 mg p.o. once daily.
12. Monopril 40 mg p.o. once daily.
FOLLOW UP APPOINTMENTS: The patient was to follow up with Dr.
Self on 7/15/2006 at 11:00 a.m. at the Whihop Hospital .  The patient is to follow up with his primary
care physician , Dr. Gusmar , on 2/27/2006 at 8:30 a.m. at the Crossbarn Memorial Hospital as scheduled.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient was discharged home with
services. The VNA was instructed to draw a BUN and creatinine on
1/27/06 and page Dr. Rodger Teems , pager number 95571 , with
the results. The VNA was also asked to reconcile the patient's
medication list with his discharge medication list and to clarify
any discrepancies with the patient's primary care physician , Dr.
Gusmar . Also , of note , the patient was instructed to discuss with
Dr. Gusmar the fact that his hydrochlorothiazide was held prior to
his discharge. Hydrochlorothiazide can be restarted provided the
patient's creatinine remains within his baseline range following
discharge.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged home with services in
stable condition.
CODE STATUS: The patient remained full code throughout this
entire admission.
eScription document: 3-7369193 HFFocus
CC: Pearline T. Self M.D.
Min Scot Lene
CC: Gaye Gusmar M.D.
Peacema Champ
Pa Atl En
Dictated By: RANDKLEV , VERNON
Attending: PART , JACKSON
Dictation ID 5438612
D: 10/7/06
T: 10/7/06