902260517 | PUO | 05373993 | | 297829 | 5/21/1998 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/11/1998 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/20/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. SEVERE PANCREATIC EXOCRINE AND
ENDOCRINE INSUFFICIENCY.
PROBLEM LIST:
1. SEVERE ACUTE PANCREATITIS
2. NEW ONSET INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS.
3. HYPERGLYCEMIC , HYPEROSMOLAR , NONKETOTIC ACIDOSIS ( NOW
RESOLVED ).
4. ACUTE RENAL FAILURE. ( NOW RESOLVED ).
5. RHABDOMYOLYSIS. ( NOW RESOLVED ).
6. SEVERE ALCOHOLISM.
7. CONGENITAL HEART BLOCK , STATUS POST PACEMAKER PLACEMENT IN
1980.
8. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE , STATUS POST SILENT IMI IN 1988.
9. HISTORY OF DILATED CARDIOMYOPATHY , CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE
LAST ECHO PERFORMED ON 20 of June WITH AN ESTIMATED EJECTION
FRACTION OF 50%.
10. HYPERTENSION.
11. HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA.
12. STATUS POST LEFT NEPHRECTOMY SECONDARY TO NEPHROLITHIASIS.
13. HISTORY OF GERD.
14. HISTORY OF SPINAL STENOSIS , LOWER EXTREMITY PAIN AND SCIATICA.
15. PERIPHERAL VASCULAR DISEASE WITH CLAUDICATION.
16. STATUS POST APPENDECTOMY.
17. HISTORY OF RECURRENT URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS.
18. HISTORY OF MEDICAL NONADHERENCE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 60 year old African-
American gentleman with a complicated
medical history including severe alcoholism and coronary artery
disease , congestive heart failure who has at baseline had shortness
of breath , dyspnea on exertion and at times paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea also orthopnea. He has a history of medical nonadherence ,
noncompliance. The patient presented four days prior to admission
on 10 of February to his primary care physician Dr. Homby with a cough
chills , but no fever , myalgias , pleuritic chest pain and weight
loss of 9 lb , from 167 to 158 in three months with increased
paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. The patient had not been taking his
congestive heart failure/cardiac medications for at least one week.
A chest x-ray at that time was negative for pneumonia but was
suggestive congestive heart failure. He was also diagnosed with a
probably URI. His congestive heart failure medications were
refilled. A PPD was placed at that time. The patient was not
getting antibiotics.
The patient developed progressive malaise , anorexia , was unable to
get out of bed , poor p.o. He denied any increased alcohol abuse at
that time. There was no abdominal pain per the patient's
girlfriend but there were complaints that the patient's mental
status was worsening. He was more lethargic and was found mumbling
by his girlfriend with increased shortness of breath and EMTs were
called who found the patient to be somewhat somnolent but arousable
with a blood glucose of 483 , blood pressure 110 /palp. He was
transferred to the Pagham University Of emergency room.
The emergency room he was alert and oriented times two with
temperature of 89 rectally , blood pressure 120/68 , respiratory rate
28 , O2 of 100% on 100% face mask. An arterial blood gases pH was
7.13 , pO2 326 , pCO2 28. Acetest was positive. Betahydroxy
butyrate of 1.66. serum glucose was negative at 1800 with an anion
gap of 27 , serum sodium 129 , serum potassium 7.6 , BUN 178 and a
creatinine 7.5. The patient was treated with one liter of normal
saline IV over five hours , 20 units of IV insulin two amps of
bicarb , 30 grams of Kayexalate , one amp of calcium gluconate ,
Solu-Cortef 100 mg , ceftriaxone two grams IV. The patient's mental
status markedly improved after the hydration. The patient was then
transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for treatment
evaluation.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Please see problem list above. Also of
note , the patient has a history of severe
alcoholism , denies any preadmission alcohol binges at that time;
but , later admitted to drinking of one to two gallons of gin and
vodka at a time with his friends and also drinking many beers. At
baseline , the patient has some shortness of breath , dyspnea on
exertion , orthopnea and at times paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. His
last echo previously the one done on this admission was in 11/27
which showed an ejection fraction of approximately 30% with
anteroseptal HK , posterior lateral HK , inferior AK , 1+ MR and AR
and an ETT MIBI in 5 of August showed IMI , ischemia. However , an echo
repeated during this admission showed an approximate ejection
fraction of 50% with inferior and septal HK only and mild aortic
insufficiency and mitral regurgitation .
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS: Admission- enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , SL nitroglycerin p.r.n. , Imdur
60 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 20 mg , Naprosyn 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.
p.r.n. , digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient as noted above has a history of
severe alcoholism and has been drinking at least to
a month prior to his presentation. He has a history of one pack of
tobacco smoking per day times 30 years. The patient lives with his
girlfriend and "step-daughter" in Vercour Campdi Road
FAMILY HISTORY: Positive for coronary artery disease and also
positive for diabetes mellitus in his sister and
mother and his mother also "cancer".
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs - Temperature 94.0 , pulse 78 ,
and regular , blood pressure 100/66 , O2 is
100% saturation on 100% facemask. Respiratory rate 28. In
general , the patient was responsive to voice and oriented to
Pagham University Of , and said 1997. Head , eyes , ears ,
nose and throat exam showed that he was anicteric. Extraocular
movements are intact. Pupils are equal , round , reactive to light , 2
mm. Oropharynx was dry. There was no jugular venous distention
and low lymphadenopathy. The neck was supple. Lungs - Had few
bibasilar crackles , greater on the right. Cardiovascular - Regular
rate and rhythm with positive ectopy , no murmur , regurg or gallop.
His abdomen was soft , diffusely tender , mildly distended with
positive bowel sounds with no liver edge palpated. He was heme
negative in the emergency room with no rebound. Extremities -
Trace edema bilaterally and were somewhat cool. His skin had no
petechiae , no rash and no splinters. Neurological - He was able to
move all extremities. His reflexes were 2 in the upper and lower
extremities except for the left ankle which was 1 and his right
ankle was 0. His left toe was downgoing. His right toe was
equivocal.
LABORATORY DATA: Significant for a WBC of 11 , hematocrit was
normal at 43 , platelets 160. Significant for
bandemia of 14 , 81 polys , INR 1.3 , SMA-7 was significant for a
serum sodium of 129 , potassium 7.6 , chloride of 91 , bicarb of 11 ,
BUN of 178 creatinine of 7.5 , glucose of 1800. His CK was 126 ,
troponion-I was 0. Lipase was 22 , 610 , amylase was 2840. Liver
function tests were within normal limits , ALT of 11 , AST of 10 , LDH
174 , alk phos of 11 , T-bili of 0.4 , albumin of 3.5 , calcium 9.3.
Phos was elevated at 12.8 , magnesium was elevated at 5.2. UA was
19.5.
ACETEST was positive. A betahydroxybutyrate was 1.66. Digoxin
level was 0.8 , tox screen was negative. UA - had 0-1 wbcs , SG of
1.023.
EKG showed ventricular pacing at a rate of 77.
Chest x-ray showed no pulmonary edema or infiltrates or effusions.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive
Care Unit for further treatment evaluation of his
severe metabolic abnormalities. He also by labs he had a
significant severe pancreatitis and was felt to be either a DKA or
HHNKA. An endocrine consult was obtained and they felt that the
patient was likely not in DKA as the patient's level of
betahydroxybutyrate of 1.66 was not enought to explain the
patient's gap or all his metabolic disturbances. The endocrine
service that more likely the patient had hyperglycemic ,
hyperosmolar , nonketotic acidosis and also severe pancreatitis.
Initial screens for the cause of pancreatitis were negative
including stones. The patient has significant alcohol history and
has been drinking alcohol which is the most likely cause of his
severe pancreatic insufficiency. The patient was aggressively
hydrated with IV fluids and his metabolic abnormalities began to
correct. He was also noted by labs to be in acute renal failure
and a renal consult was obtained. The patient's nonoliguric renal
failure was in the setting of severe dehydration secondary to
hyperosmolar state and ACE inhibitors were felt most likely due to
ATN. A renal ultrasound performed on 1 of July showed no evidence of
gallstones or biliary duct dilatation.
An abdominal CT performed on 7 of July showed grade I pancreatitis with
no evidence of a pseudocyst. The patient's clinical course was
complicated by rhabdomyolysis which was felt to be due to a
hypophosphatemic state , but this was not completely clear as the
patient's CKs began to rise while the patient's phosphate was still
secondary to the acute renal failure. The patient's CKs peaked
around 10 , 000 and then began to fall steadily and the patient's
renal function with continued hydration improved steadily as his
creatinine and BUN returned to normal. However , in the night of
20 of June the patient's abdominal pain worsened and there was a
question of peritoneal signs which prompted an emergent exploratory
laparotomy to rule out abdominal ischemia. However , the findings
were not consistent with ischemic bowel , but only severe
pancreatitis was noted. On 25 of July and 20 of June the patient did very well
postoperatively back in the Medical Intensive Care Unit. He was
started on TPN and with a slow wean of his of dextrose , his blood
sugars normalized. On 20 of June the patient's renal function had also
normalized. The patient by 5 of September had marked decreased abdominal
pain , normalized electrolytes and his renal function was at his
baseline with a creatinine of 1.0.
The patient was transferred out of the Medical Intensive Care Unit
to our service on 8 of May on TPN and the following medications:
1. Digoxin 0.375 mg q.d.
2. Carafate one gram b.i.d.
3. Albuterol two puffs t.i.d.
4. Aspirin 325 mg q.d.
He is also on TPN , but was being advanced to a clear liquid diet
and seemed to be tolerating it well. He also continued to require
a large amount of insulin through his TPN and also through his
sliding scale. The patient did well and was able to tolerate a
clear liquid diet and was advanced in the next two days to a soft ,
solid diet with very low fat.
I will dictate the rest of the patient's events , assessment and
plan by problem list as follows:
1. GI:
I. SEVERE PANCREATITIS: The patient was able to be advanced
to a soft solid diet for the past few days. She has abdominal pain
which had almost resolved and then resumed and the patient
developed a watery diarrhea. It was felt that this could be due to
pancreatic insufficiency versus C. diff colitis and therefore C.
diff samples were sent and the patient was presumptively started on
Flagyl and Pancrease 12 , 000 units t.i.d. 1/2 hour before meals.
The patient's abdominal pain and diarrhea persisted. This prompted
us to make the patient n.p.o. once more and another abdominal CT
was obtained. An abdominal CT performed on 30 of March showed
progression of pancreatitis with increase inflammatory changes.
There was no necrosis or pseudocyst formation noted. Also noted
was some significant small bowel dilatation without any evidence of
obstruction. Therefore , the patient was continued to be kept
n.p.o. and TPN was restarted on 25 of April .  The patient has tolerated
this well and at this time has no longer had any abdominal pain
either subjectively or on exam. It does occasionally have mild low
back pain which is thought to actually be due to his pancreatitis
as opposed to any musculoskeletal cause.
II. DIARRHEA: The patient also had diarrhea as noted above.
He has been worked up extensively. His diarrhea has now resolved.
He was C. diff negative , but was treated presumptively with Flagyl
for seven days. All stool studies including Shigella , Salmonella ,
Campylobacter , ova and parasites , Microsporidia have been negative.
His stool has been sent for quantitative fecal fast which is still
pending on discharge. He has been repeatedly guaiac negative. As
noted above his diarrhea has resolved.
III. RESOLVED HEME POSITIVITY: The patient earlier in the
course of his Intensive Care Unit stay had some stools that were
heme positive. They were thought to be due to gastritis. He has
now been on initially , after that has been on Prilosec and now
changed over to ranitidine in his TPN and has had multiple guaiac
negative stools in the past ten days.
IV. SMALL PERIANAL ULCER: The patient was noted to have a
small perianal ulcer. It is felt to be secondary to pressure from
lying in bed and also secondary to his multiple episodes of
diarrhea which had been going on for days. It is felt that this
should resolve. If it does not , it is suggested that the ulcer be
swabbed and sent for HSV.
2. ENDOCRINE:
I. INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS: Due to the patient's
pancreatic insufficiency , the patient will be a life long diabetic.
The patient has been followed by the endocrine service and is now
receiving 45 units of insulin per liter through his TPN. He is
also on a sliding scale regular regimen with finger stick q6h. It
is felt that this should be a relatively stable regimen for him at
this time. As the patient is weaned off his TPN and starts to take
p.o. again , he should be switched over to NPH b.i.d. with regular
insulin checks on a sliding scale before his meals. The patient
also has a follow-up appointment with the diabetes clinic in three
weeks as noted below.
3. CARDIOVASCULAR: The patient does have a history of congestive
heart failure and has had mild bi-basilar crackles throughout his
stay here. This has not limited him in any way. He has had a good
oxygen saturations. The patient continues to take 40 mg of Lasix
p.o. q.d. On the day of discharge , he received an extra 20 mg IV
as he has been I&amp;Os positive for the last few days and we noted a
slightly more crackles on his exam. Of note , the patient has a
long history of having paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea but had been
doing relatively well here. His current medical regimen includes
Isordil 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d. Both of
these can be titrated upwards as his blood pressure allows. He has
had some labile blood pressures ranging anywhere from the systolics
of 80s to 130s while in the hospital and he has never been
symptomatic and even when he has been , he has had blood pressures
in the 80s and has tolerated this well. He is also maintained on
digoxin 0.375 mg q.d. He is also taking aspirin for his cardiac
regimen.
4. PULMONARY: The patient had good O2 saturations and usually
ranging from 95 to 97% on room air and has had no pulmonary
problems. He has had bibasilar crackles on exam which is felt to
be due to some mild congestive heart failure for which he is taking
Lasix. He may need some extra doses of Lasix per your directions
the next few days.
5. HEME: The patient's hematocrit has been low in the high 20s on
two occasions. In both cases always drifting down slowly thought
to be due to delutional effects plus repeat a phlebotomy. He has
been transfused a total of three units while he has been in the
hospital here. Otherwise is hematocrit has been stable for
multiple days so has his platelets. Also of note the patient has
been heme negative from below for more than ten days.
6. RENAL: The patient says his baseline creatinine in which his
acute renal failure has resolved.
7. RHABDOMYOLYSIS: This has also resolved with the patient's CKs
having normalized over a week ago.
8. INFECTIOUS DISEASE: The patient has remained afebrile , normal
white count for many days. While here he was also presumptively
treated for C. diff which was actually found to be negative on his
stool examinations with no fecal leukocytes. The patient's
temperature curve should be followed given that the patient
continues to have pancreatitis and is at risk for developing a
phlegmon.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:
1. SEVERE PANCREATITIS: The patient continues to be on TPN. A
PICC line has been placed and a triple lumen catheter will be
removed prior to transfer of the patient. It is our feeling that
the patient should remain on TPN for the next two days and then as
per your directions , the patient could be slowly advanced on a p.o.
diet as tolerated. We feel that the patient deserves another trial
to see if he can tolerate p.o. before any long term decisions is
made regarding his nutrition and perhaps placement of a J-tube for
long term feeding. The patient's amylase and lipase on the day of
discharge are 47 for amylase and 166 for lipase. These values
continue to remain low even when the patient was having abdominal
pain. This is felt to be due to a relatively burnt out pancreas.
A GI consult was also obtained which agrees with this assessment.
It is felt that when the patient does start taking p.o. again he
should have pancreas at least 8 to 12 , 000 units t.i.d. half hour
before meals due to his pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. Also
the patient should be followed clinically very closely including
his white count , fever curve and his abdominal exam for any signs
and symptoms of development of an infection or phlegmon or
pseudocyst because of his pancreatitis. The patient's TPN should
be continued as noted below.
2. ENDOCRINE INSUFFICIENCY: The patient , as noted above , will
require insulin , both through is TPN and his fingersticks should be
checked every six hours. As noted when the patient is switched
over to a p.o. regimen , we suggest per endocrine recommendations
that NPH be given b.i.d. and the patient should be covered with an
insulin sliding scale at bedtime.
The patient is being transferred to Surgnor Medical Center on
2 of April in good condition. The patient today denies any abdominal
pain , nausea or vomiting , but occasionally continues to have mild
back pain. His diarrhea has resolved. He is afebrile with a blood
pressure of 120/70 , pulse is 69 , respiratory rate 16 , sat 97 on
room air , with a weight of 69.0 kg. He is comfortable and has had
bibasilar crackles of 1/4 the way up. His abdomen is soft ,
nontender , nondistended with positive bowel sounds. His
extremities are without edema.
On the day of discharge his white count is 8.8 , hematocrit is 36 ,
ADDplatelets of 348. His SMA-7 was within normal limits with a
creatinine of 0.6. His amylase is 47 and his lipase is 160.
DISPOSITION: The patient is being discharged in good condition
to Surgnor Medical Center .  His primary care
physician Dr. Homby is aware of the patient's discharge and will
continue to follow with his care. The patient also has an
appointment with Dr. Mclead in the Diabetes Clinic at Liettonoake Gomond Y on 7 of January at 11 a.m.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
2. Albuterol inhalers two puffs q.i.d.
3. Digoxin 0.375 mg q.d.
4. Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d.
5. Captopril 6.25 mg p.o. t.i.d.
6. Isordil 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.
7. Magnesium and potassium sliding scale through IVs while being
here.
DIET: The patient should remain n.p.o. for the next two days. His
TPN orders upon discharge should be as follows: He will
have a total of 2 liters per day at a rate of 83.3 ml per hour
constantly. He has a modified central solution of 5% aminoacid ,
18% Dextrose , 400 lipids K-calories per day. His aminoacid should
be through a Novamine solution. His acetate is 0% His sodium
should be 30 mEq per liter , magnesium should be 10 mEq per liter ,
potassium 50 mEq per liter , phosphate 10 millimoles per liter.
Trace elements 1 millimoles per day , vitamin K 10 mg q. Mondays ,
MVI 10 ml per day , calcium 94 mg per liter. His insulin in the TPN
should be 45 units per liter of TPN. There should also be
ranitidine 150 mg per liter of TPN. Also in addition to this he
should have 10 mg of Thiamine every Tuesday , Thursday , Saturday and
Sunday , 800 mcg of folate every Monday , Wednesday and Friday and
also 100 mcg of B-12 q. Thursday through his TPN.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Good.
OPERATIONS DURING ADMISSION: Exploratory laparotomy performed on
20 of June without complications.
Dictated By: KELVIN MIRISOLA , M.D. RG28
Attending: DESIRAE R. MARCOTT , M.D. BP21  LV542/6302
Batch: 8819 Index No. CFYEJ19IB1 D: 10/30/98
T: 10/30/98
CC: 1. SURGNOR MEDICAL CENTER