536815366 | PUO | 34000260 | | 242887 | 11/3/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/8/1993 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 8/1/1993
CARDIAC SURGERY CONSULT: HERMINA T. TUOMALA , M.D.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSES: 1. CARDIOMYOPATHY OF UNKNOWN ETIOLOGY.
2. RETROSTERNAL CHEST PAIN FOR RULE OUT
MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION.
3. NONINSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS.
4. HISTORY OF PULMONARY TUBERCULOSIS.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Mrs. Emiko Dimalanta is a 54-year-old woman from Memp with a background history of idiopathic
cardiomyopathy and noninsulin-dependent diabetes , and pulmonary
tuberculosis who presented with an 20 minute episode of chest pain
and dyspnea for a rule out myocardial infarction.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history is remarkable for 1 ) A
cardiomyopathy of 10 years' duration of
unknown etiology. The patient denies alcohol abuse. There is no
history of rheumatic fevers in childhood. There is no valvular
defects , and has no known risk factors for coronary artery disease ,
aside from her noninsulin-dependent diabetes. The etiology at this
point is thought to be viral. The patient experiences intermittent
episodes of mild chest pain and chest pressure with exertion
approximately one episode every 2-3 months and is not currently on
sublingual nitrates. She has no known coronary artery disease and
has not had a myocardial infarction. 2 ) Noninsulin-dependent
diabetes times three years , well controlled on Glucotrol 10 mg p.o.
b.i.d. and diabetic diet. She has no known diabetic retinopathy ,
nephropathy or peripheral neuropathy. 3 ) The patient has a history
of tuberculosis approximately 20 years ago , diagnosed from a lymph
node biopsy of the left neck. She was treated for one year with a
combination of medications. She currently experiences no night
sweats , loss or weight , loss of appetite or hemoptysis. She does ,
however , admit to a dry cough especially at night which has been
increasing over the last six months. Her BCG status is unknown.
Past surgical history is remarkable for: 1 ) Status post cesarean
section times one. 2 ) Status post total abdominal hysterectomy ,
right salpingo-oophorectomy for metromenorrhagia approximately
1991. The patient currently denies any post or perimenopausal
symptoms. 3 ) Status post lymph node biopsy of the left neck
approximately 20 years ago for tuberculosis. The patient has no
known drug allergies. Family history is remarkable for diabetes
mellitus ( father ). The patient is a nonsmoker , denies alcohol abuse
or intravenous drug abuse. Medications on admission include
Digoxin 0.1 mg p.o. q a.m. , Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Glucotrol 10
mg p.o. b.i.d. , K-Dur 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. to t.i.d. and Capoten 37.5
mg p.o. q.i.d.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient has noted increasing
dyspnea and worsening exercise
tolerance over the past six months. She was admitted to Norap Valley Hospital under the care of Dr. Shepps in April of 1992 for
congestive heart failure which resolved with diuresis. Since then
her baseline exercise tolerance is that she is unable to do a full
load of laundry without getting tired , unable to climb a full
flight of steps without getting tired , but does not experience
chest pain. However , today while walking in her sister-in-law's
house she experienced severe retrosternal chest pain radiating to
her left shoulder and back , which is as great as 10 out of 10 for
severity and lasted for approximately one minute. It was associated
with dyspnea , sweating and nausea but no vomiting. She also
experienced some palpitations. Therefore , she had persistent chest
pressure and dyspnea on arrival at the Totin Hospital And Clinic
Emergency Room approximately 20 minutes later , at which time the
pressure and dyspnea were relieved with two sublingual nitrates.
Review of systems is remarkable also for chronic cough increasing
over the last five months , especially since her Capoten dose was
increased. She denies fever , chills , previous episodes of
pneumonia. Of note she was ruled out for active pulmonary
tuberculosis during her admission in P Therford Hospital in September 1992.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On examination on admission , she is a
pleasant , elderly woman. Her vital signs
reveal a temperature of 97.4 orally , heart rate of 80 regular ,
respiratory rate of 20 and blood pressure of 108/80 supine with no
orthostatic hypertension. O2 saturation was 99% on 4 liters. Head
and neck examination were unremarkable with no evidence of
adenopathy and a normal thyroid gland. Respiratory system showed
scattered bibasilar crackles but no focal pathology. Cardiovascular
system showed a heart rate of 80 which was regular at full volume
with occasional ectopic beats. There was no evidence of paradoxical
alternates. Jugular venous pressure was elevated to 10 cm above
the angle of Louis' and had a prominent CV wave. All pulses were
present and equal. The cardiac apex was in the sixth left
intercostal space. Midaxillary line was volume overloaded in
character. No thrills or rubs were appreciated , however , there was
dullness to percussion beyond the apex and an S3 gallop was heard
throughout the precordium. The patient had a soft S1 , a III/VI
pansystolic murmur heard best at the apex and radiating through to
the left axilla. There was also I/VI MVM which could be brought on
with exercise and lying in the left lateral position. A PI murmur
was also heart similar in character to the MI murmur but heard best
on the left sternal border and radiating up the neck. There was
also an ejection systolic murmur at the left sternal border II/VI
in intensity and radiating poorly increased with expiration.
Abdominal examination was soft , nontender , nondistended. There was
a 12 cm hepar which was soft and nonpulsatile. No spring was
palpable. No masses were appreciated. Bowel sounds were present ,
and there was no costovertebral angle tenderness. A well healed
subumbilical midline scar was evident. Rectal examination showed
no masses , guaiac negative brown stool. Bimanual examination was
deferred at this time. Central nervous system examination was
grossly intact. Extremities showed pulses to be present
bilaterally and equal. There was no evidence of deep venous
thrombosis and no pedal edema or sacral edema were appreciated.
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory examinations on admission showed a
sodium of 136 , potassium 3.4 , blood urea nitrogen
16 , creatinine 0.8 , and a glucose of 136. White count was 8.2 with
a normal differential. Hematocrit was 41.2 and platelets 247. PT
and PTT were 13.4 and 29.4 respectively. Digoxin level was 2.1.
Chest X ray showed significant cardiomegaly with dilatation of both
left and right ventricles but minimal congestive heart failure. The
electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 86 beats per minute
with a complete left bundle branch block and no evidence of acute
ischemia. There was no change as compared with electrocardiograms
from 2/10 .  The initial CPK was 44.
HOSPITAL COURSE: In summary then the patient is a 54-year-old woman
with cardiomyopathy , noninsulin-dependent
diabetes , who presented now with an episode of chest pain and
dyspnea for rule out myocardial infarction and further evaluation.
Actively she is in hospital where it as follows: 1 ) Cardiomegaly of
unclear etiology: last echo done was in 25 of November by Dr. Kush which
showed an ejection fraction of 25-30% with global left and right
ventricular dilatation. 2 ) Chest pressure and substernal chest pain
and dyspnea: The patient was placed on the telemetry floor , was
monitored for 24 hours and a rule out protocol was performed. The
CK were 44 , 37 , and 34 respectively and there was no evidence of
electrocardiogram changes on serial electrocardiogram. She did have
one run of 4-beat ventricular tachycardia the first 24 hours of
admission. Potassium was replaced in view of the potassium level of
3.4. Initial Digoxin level was 2.1 and Digoxin was held for a
period of 72 hours. She was continued on her Lasix , Captopril and
a sliding scale Nitropaste and was started on one aspirin a day.
3 ) Noninsulin-dependent diabetes was well controlled on diet and
Glucotrol and her sugars remained between 100 and 200 throughout
this admission. 4 ) Status post tuberculosis: In view of her
previous tuberculosis status , a PPD was not performed and the
patient was not ruled out for tuberculosis.
On review of Mrs. Dimalanta 's history and following a rule out for a
recent myocardial infarct , it became apparent that her exercise
tolerance had diminished dramatically over the past three months
and that she was already on optimal medications. It was thought
that she would benefit from a cardiac transplant evaluation at this
point and Dr. Otani was kind enough to consult. A transthoracic
echocardiogram performed on 2 of May showed once again a dilated
cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 15%. There was 2+ of
mitral regurgitation with a pulmonary arterial pressure of
approximately 60. There was also 3+ or PR and evidence of
significant left atrial hypertrophy. No ventricular clicks or
thrombosis were seen. However , in view of the dilated
cardiomyopathy , the patient was started on Coumadin therapy. An ETT
O2 uptake test was performed on 2 of May and the patient performed
for 3.38 minutes on a cycle ergometer. She experienced on chest
pain and there were no obvious electrocardiogram changes. The test
was stopped because of shortness of breath. Her O2 uptake was
calculated at 11.4 per kick per minute. In addition her Capoten
therapy was changed from 37.5 q.i.d. to 50 mg t.i.d. At this point
it became apparent that Mrs. Dimalanta had a significant degree of
cardiac dysfunction. A right-sided catheterization performed on
5 of August showed a right atrial pressure of 26 and a pulmonary wedge
pressure of 36. It was decided that she would be an excellent
candidate for cardiac transplantation , and a full cardiac
transplant workup was initiated. The following tests were sent off ,
the results of many of which are still pending: 1 ) One chest X ray
detailed above; 2 ) electrocardiogram as detailed; 3 ) urinalysis and
sediment which are unremarkable; 4 ) SMA-7 with CPK , complete with
differential , PT , PTT , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , reticulocyte
count and bleeding time; 5 ) HLA typing and antibody screen which
are pending; 6 ) blood typing; 7 ) dental consult; 8 ) physiotherapy
consult; 9 ) Social Service consult; 10 ) nutrition consult; 11 )
Gynecology appointment made as an outpatient and a booking for
bilateral mammography was made; 12 ) pulmonary function tests were
performed; 13 ) noninvasive carotid Doppler studies and peripheral
arterial noninvasive studies were performed the results of which
are pending; 14 ) echocardiogram as detailed above; 15 ) exercise
test with O2 as detailed above; 16 ) 24-hour urine for creatinine
and protein; 17 ) HIV antibody test; 18 ) fasting glucose serum
protein , electrophoresis , cholesterol , triglycerides ,
immunoglobulins , hepatitis B and C serology , as well as blood
cultures , sputum cultures and urine cultures were sent; 19 )
psychiatric consults , has not been obtained at this point and will
be done as an outpatient; 20 ) virology titers for cytomegalovirus ,
Ebstein-Barr virus , toxoid , measles and varicella zoster were sent;
21 ) TFT and hemoglobin A1C were sent; and 22 ) right heart
catheterization as detailed above; 23 ) abdominal ultrasound to rule
out gallstones , aortic aneurysm and renal abnormalities were done
and were within normal limits.
DISPOSITION: At this point the patient will be discharged home in a
stable but guarded condition. She will be followed by
the Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery Departments at the Totin Hospital And Clinic .  Her primary attending Dr. Shepps from P Therford Hospital
( telephone number 634 251-4380 ) will be updated as to her program.
Outstanding consults were be sorted on an outpatient basis and she
will be listed for a cardiac transplant. Her discharge medications
include Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Glucotrol 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d , K-Dur 20 mEq p.o. b.i.d. , Coumadin 2.5
mg p.o. t.i.d. She will also be sent home on home O2 as required.
Digoxin will be started at 0.1 mg p.o. q d. PT and PTT levels will
be checked q weekly and the patient's doses changed accordingly.
Dictated By: DANICA H. ESSER , M.D. HD6
Attending: LACY L. MCAUSLAND , M.D. RR0  AP605/6091
Batch: 4500 Index No. L9AGI48O8Z D: 3/5/93
T: 7/26/93
CC: 1. DR. SHEPPS , NORAP VALLEY HOSPITAL
2. HA I. OTANI , M.D. ZF72