540167155 | PUO | 66456892 | | 5654565 | 1/16/2005 12:00:00 AM | LINE INFECTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/1/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 3/21/2005
ATTENDING: DONEHOO , FILOMENA MD
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Fevers , pain over her Hickman catheter.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 41-year-old female with a
history of an aplastic anemia since age of 12 , diabetes mellitus ,
avascular necrosis of bilateral hips and shoulders status post
replacements and multiple previous sinus infections , who presents
with one day of fever and pain around her Hickman site. The
patient was in her usual state of health the week of admission ,
but on the Friday prior to admission , she felt sick and was in
bed all day. She noticed worsening back and knee pain. That had
been present since July when she was in a motor vehicle
accident. She also felt warm to the temperature and noticed
herself to be febrile to 101 degrees. The morning of admission ,
she had worsening pain and induration around her Hickman site and
called her physician who told her to come to the Emergency
Department. On review of systems , she denied cough , sputum
production , nasal congestion , headache , chest pain , shortness of
breath , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , rashes ,
dysuria , increased urinary frequency or urgency.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Her past medical history is notable for
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , hepatitis C positivity ,
aplastic anemia , transfusion dependent , acute 2 weeks , chronic
kidney disease , avascular necrosis of the hips bilaterally ,
status post bilateral total hip replacements , hepatitis B
secondary hemachromatosis and hypothyroidism and she has an
allergy to acetaminophen.
MEDICATIONS: Her medications include , Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Lantus 25 units q.h.s. , thiamine 100 mg p.o. q.d. , Humalog
sliding scale , folic acid 1 mg q.d. , Ambien 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,
levothyroxine 75 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. ,
methadone 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , oxycodone 98 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n.
pain , quinine 260 mg q.h.s. , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o.
q.h.s. , Zoloft 100 mg p.o. q.d. , and Compazine p.r.n. nausea.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives at home with her daughter. She does
not drink alcohol. She does not smoke tobacco.
FAMILY HISTORY: Her family history is noncontributory. In the
emergency department , blood cultures were drawn from her Hickman
line and peripherally plain films were obtained of the left knee
and the lumbar spine and she received a single dose of
vancomycin , levofloxacin and Flagyl intravenously.
ADMISSION EXAMINATION: Her temperature was 97.8. Her heart rate
was 80. Her blood pressure was 102/68. Her respiratory rate was
16. She was satting 100% on room air. Generally , she was awake
and alert. HEENT: Mucous membranes were moist. Oropharynx was
clear , pupils equal , round and reactive to light. Her pupils
were pinpoint. Cardiovascular: JVP was at 7 cm of water ,
carotid upstrokes were brisk. Her cardiovascular exam was
regular rate and rhythm , S1 , S2 , no rubs , murmurs or gallops.
Pulmonary: Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdomen: Her abdomen was soft , nontender , and nondistended. No
hepatosplenomegaly , negative Murphy's sign and she had normal
active bowel sounds. Extremities were warm and well perfused.
She had 1+ edema bilaterally in the lower extremities. She had
left medial knee tenderness but no effusion , full range of
motion. Her neurologic exam was nonfocal.
LABORATORY DATA: Her laboratory evaluation was notable for a
glucose of 49. Her complete blood count was notable for a white
blood count of 1.7 with an absolute neutrophil count of 735. Her
hematocrit was 26. Her platelet count was 7. Plain films
obtained of the left knee showed a stable pattern sclerosis in
the distal femur with an effusion. Plain films of the L-spine
showed no fracture or other pathology.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: Her blood cultures.
1. ID , her blood cultures grew out coag-negative staphylococcus.
Her Hickman line was pulled and thought to be the source of
infection. She was started on vancomycin intravenously to
complete a 2-week course of vancomycin.
2. Musculoskeletal , the patient had has chronic hip and knee
pain secondary to avascular necrosis and also from her MVA that
she experienced , which likely exacerbated the pain. The
patient's pain seemed to be out of control throughout the
admission. Anesthesia was consulted and the patient was treated
with a fentanyl PCA. She was also continued on her home dose of
methadone 40 t.i.d. with oxycodone for breakthrough. Toward the
end of the admission , the patient was thought to be somnolent ,
perhaps over sedated from narcotics. Her medication regimen was
titrated back down to her home regimen versus the methadone 40 mg
p.o. t.i.d. and her oxycodone was titrated down to 60 mg q.8h p.
r.n. , breakthrough pain.
3. Heme , the patient has a history of aplastic anemia. She was
transfused blood for hematocrit less than 25. Furthermore upper
extremity noninvasive vascular studies were obtained to rule out
subclavian clot associated with her prior Hickman and that study
was negative. The decision was made to transfuse platelets only
if the patient was actively bleeding , which she was not.
4. Endocrine: Throughout the patient's admission , her blood
sugars were somewhat difficult to control having episodes of both
hyper and hypoglycemia. The patient was discharged on the
following regimen NPH 34 units in the morning with Humalog
sliding scale with the plan for her to follow up with her primary
physician in office to further adjust her insulin scale. She was
continued on her Synthroid at 75 mg q.d. for hypothyroidism , this
was not initially during this admission.
5. Cardiovascular system: The patient has a history of
hypertension. She was continued on her lisinopril 20 mg q.d. ,
and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d.
6. Prophylaxis: The patient had pneumoboots for DVT
prophylaxis.
7. FEN: The patient was had her nutrition supplemented with
multivitamin , thiamine and folate.
8. GI: The patient was on GI prophylaxis with Nexium and was
given Colace as a stool softener versus her narcotics.
9. The patient was full code during this admission.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged with the diagnosis of
neutropenia and Hickman line infection. She was completed a
course of intravenous vancomycin for coag-negative staphylococcus
bacteremia , which ended on 6/5/05 . Prior to her discharge , she
had a tunneled catheter placed by general surgery , procedure ,
which she tolerated well. Please see separate operative report.
The patient was instructed to follow up with Dr. Donehoo in his
office. The patient was continued on methadone 40 mg p.o. t.i.d.
for pain with oxycodone 60 mg q.6h , as needed for breakthrough
pain.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Nexium 40 mg
p.o. q.d. , thiamine 100 mg p.o. q.d. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Levoxyl 75 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , methadone 40
mg p.o. t.i.d. , quinine 260 mg q.h.s. , Zoloft 100 mg p.o. q.d. ,
hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.d. , baclofen 10 mg t.i.d. ,
NovoLog sliding scale , NPH 35 units q.a.m. , vancomycin 1 gram
q.d. to be continued until 11/19/06 .
DIET ON DISCHARGE: American diabetic association diet.
ACTIVITY ON DISCHARGE: As tolerated.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable , improved from admission.
eScription document: 5-5235653 HFFocus
Dictated By: RAMIL , FELIPA
Attending: DONEHOO , FILOMENA
Dictation ID 8538088
D: 8/20/07
T: 8/20/07