384779809 | PUO | 62687667 | | 0206295 | 9/7/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/22/2003
Date of Discharge: 9/22/2003
ATTENDING: ROSSIE MANKOSKI MD
SERVICE: Chief Surgery.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 72-year-old male
who presented to his primary care doctor in early September with
dysphagia and acolasia and epigastric pain. He had an upper
endoscopy which showed an ulcer in the distal esophagus and
proximal stomach. He had a repeat EGD and biopsies of the ulcer
which showed adenocarcinoma of the proximal stomach and distal
esophagus. Metastatic workup showed only thickening at the GE
junction and one enlarged lymph node in the periportal region 3.4
x 1.6 cm. The patient was referred to Dr. Bingley for resection
and was planned for an esophagectomy.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history includes
hypertension , ischemic cardiomyopathy , noninsulin dependent
diabetes , kidney stones , status post laser lithotripsy , history
of hyponatremia , myocardial infarction six years ago ,
hypercholesterolemia , and an infrarenal abdominal aortic
aneurysm.
HOME MEDICATIONS: Prevacid 30 mg b.i.d. , Zocor 10 mg q.day ,
Toprol-XL 50 mg q.day , Glyburide 2.5 mg q.day , Zestril 5 mg
q.day , aspirin 325 mg q.day and Coumadin alternating 5 and 2.5 mg
p.o. q.d.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient came into the hospital , after
admission was taken to the operating room on 9/5/03 . In the
operating room he underwent exploratory laparotomy biopsy of a
portacaval lymph node. Uterolithotomy on the right side , liver
biopsy , cystoscopy , placement of double J ureteral stent on the
right side and open nephrolithotomy. The large right ureteral
stone was found upon exploration and urology was called for an
intraoperative consult. Please see both Dr. Bingley and Dr.
Bolvin dictated reports for more information. There was a
very high amount of blood loss approximately 17 liters
intraoperatively from venous plexus bleeding of the pelvis and
kidney and the patient was closed after stomach mobilization
without resection of his tumor and admitted to the Doser Lane , Ton surgical
intensive care unit. The patient was left intubated due to his
large fluid and blood product replacement and surrounding facial
edema. He was kept intubated , paralyzed and sedated , started on
Lopressor , put on a rule out MI protocol , kept NPO with an
NG-tube. His electrolytes , CBC and coagulation labs were
corrected. The patient had multiple abdominal drains and was
kept on triple antibiotics. Over the next several days , the
patient was kept intubated and sedated. His chest x-rays
revealed some early ARDS and he continued to need blood product
including red cell and platelet and FFP transfusions. He
underwent bronchoscopy in the intensive care unit and was slowly
weaned on his valve dilatory settings. Over postop day 4 , 5 and
6 the patient began to spike some fevers up to 102. He had been
weaned to pressure support ventilation and was beginning to auto
diurese. He then started on tube feeds of small amounts which
were increased as tolerated.
Over the next couple of days as the patient's sedation was weaned
and he woke up more , it was noticed that he had decreased
movement of his left lower extremity and upon examination and
given his recurrent fevers , there was a question of an epidural
hematoma. He was scheduled for an MRI to assess this. He was
tolerating tube feeds well and these were increased and his labs
were stabilizing. Neurosurgery was consulted and it was
ascertained that the patient did have an epidural hematoma ,
therefore his epidural was removed and this was deemed likely to
be secondary to trauma from the epidural. It was decided that
the patient would benefit from evacuation of epidural hematoma
and the patient was made NPO and taken back to the operating room
on 8/18/03 . He underwent a T5-T8 laminectomy with evacuation of
the epidural hematoma. Please see the dictated operative report
for more information , but a handful of clot was removed from the
area. The patient was transferred back to Nos Kee Sadefay , intubated and
stable having tolerated the procedure well.
Thereafter , the patient was more awake and alert and more quickly
weaned off his ventilatory support. His fingersticks were more
difficult to control and he was therefore started on the
Heartland protocol and was seen by the Diabetes Management
Service. The patient was extubated on 9/11/03 and was doing well
on a face mask on that day. His tube feeds were restarted and
speech and swallow was consulted to evaluate the patient. He
began to be seen by physical therapy for his lower extremity
weakness. The Cardiology Service was consulted on 8/18 and asked
to optimize medical management of the patient's ischemic
cardiomyopathy. They recommended discontinuing and titrating the
patient's Lopressor. He had been somewhat tachycardic previously
and this resolved shortly. Speech and swallow saw the patient
and initially cleared him for soft foods and thickened foods and
this was likely just due to endotracheal tube trauma. After
another day or two they cleared him for all regular foods
including thin liquids without any restrictions.
For the patient's epidural hematoma , he had been started on
Vancomycin and it was decided that he would get a total of a
three week course of Vancomycin. Urology continued to followed
the patient and wanted at least one Blake drain kept in place and
the Foley catheter kept in place. The patient did have a CT scan
on 10/19/03 which demonstrated no urine leak on the CT urogram.
The patient continued to be seen by physical therapy every day
and was doing very well. It was very difficulty initially to
normalize him but by the time of discharge he was up walking with
the walker with physical therapy and doing quite well.
Infectious disease was consulted to confirm the three week course
of Vancomycin was appropriate for the patient's epidural
hematoma , and they agreed and thought no other interventions or
treatment as needed at the time. The patient was transferred out
of the intensive care unit on 10/19/03 .
Neuro: At this time he was getting increasingly more oriented.
He had had some ICU psychosis and confusion and he was taking no
pain medication. He was stable from his neurosurgery procedure
and neurosurgery was following him.
Pulmonary: His lungs were clear. He was now stable on room air.
From a cardiovascular standpoint , he was stable and continued on
his low dose Lopressor.
Gastroenterology: He was tolerating a house diet , eating small
amounts.
GU: As stated , the urologist wanted to keep the Foley catheter
and keep one of the Blake drains upon discharge.
From a hematology standpoint , the patient had a stable
hematocrit. From an infectious disease standpoint , the patient
was continued on IV Vancomycin for three weeks. He had a PICC
line placed on 9/22/03 which was put in good position.
From an endocrine standpoint , he was placed on glyburide ,
continued to be followed by diabetes and also on a humalog scale.
From an activity standpoint , he was seen by physical therapy
every day.
Over the ensuing few days he was begun on calorie counts to see
how much of the diet he was tolerating and he continued to work
with physical therapy. His glyburide and insulin doses were
tweaked a little bit by the diabetes management service and he
was improving every day as was his mental status. He had been
discharged from the unit with a one-to-one sitter but this was
very soon thereafter stopped on 10/21/03 . He was stable medically
about 3/11 or 2/4/03 for discharge and was ______ for a
rehabilitation facility appropriately. He was accepted to a
rehab facility near his home on 5/16/03 , Daonredd Cison Community Memorial Hospital and was ready
to go.
From a neurologic standpoint , he is awake and oriented x3 most of
his time. His back limbs are stable. The staples have been
removed by neurosurgery and he will follow up with Dr. Lehnortt
from Neurosurgery in a couple of weeks. From a cardiovascular
standpoint , he has been restarted on all of his home medications
and his blood pressure and heart rate had been stable on those.
From a pulmonary standpoint , he currently has no issues and is
breathing well on room air. From a GI standpoint , he is
tolerating an ADA diet with diabetic booster , Ensure and has been
eating fairly well the last couple of days. From a GU
standpoint , he is urinating sufficiently and he will keep his
Foley catheter and Blake drain. From an endocrine standpoint , he
is on glyburide twice a day and twice a day fingersticks with
humalog sliding scale. From an infectious disease standpoint , he
has a well functioning PICC and has been fine and will begin on
Vancomycin for a total of three weeks. Today , 5/16/03 is day 8 of
21 of the Vancomycin.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE: On physical exam , the patient
is awake and oriented in no acute distress. His lungs are clear
to auscultation bilaterally. His heart is regular , rate and
rhythm , no murmurs , rubs or gallops. Abdomen is soft , nontender ,
nondistended with a well healing midline incision scar with some
Steri-Strips still in place. He has one Blake drain in place on
the right side which is functioning well. His extremities have
no edema and his Foley catheter is in place and working well.
OPERATIONS: Operations are as indicated above on 9/5/03 and
8/18/03 . Please see above. Complications are bleeding
intraoperatively 9/5/03 , abortion of the indicated procedure on
9/5/03 and an epidural hematoma requiring reoperation on
8/18/03 .
LABORATORIES: Laboratory results as of 7/22 Sodium 141 ,
potassium 4.2 , chloride 107 , bicarb 25 , BUN 23 , creatinine 1.0 ,
glucose 128 , calcium 8.5 , magnesium 1.8 , white blood count 11.0 ,
hematocrit 36.4 , platelets 322.
CONDITION: Stable.
DISPOSITION: To rehab.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Tylenol p.o. p.r.n. , Benadryl p.o.
p.r.n. , glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Heparin 5000 units sub q.
b.i.d. - this may be discontinued when the patient is ambulating
independently , Humalog insulin sliding scale as written in the
discharge instructions b.i.d. , Zestril 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
multivitamin with minerals 1 tab p.o. b.i.d. , Vancomycin 1 gram
IV via PICC line q.12h for 13 more days , Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. ,
Toprol-XL 15 mg p.o. q.d. , Prevacid 30 mg p.o. q.day , and an
aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day.
TO DO: Continue Foley catheter and JP drain , work on physical
therapy and work on nutrition. Follow up is with Dr. Lehnortt in
approximately two weeks , Dr. Gailun from Urology in
approximately two weeks and Dr. Rossie Mankoski from General
Surgery in approximately two weeks.
eScription document: 8-4635678 DBSSten Tel
CC: Alexandra Popovic M.D.
Scot Ville Atl
CC: Tabatha Hollway MD
Verabamont
Dictated By: MCBURNETT , RON CARRY
Attending: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE
Dictation ID 5992885
D: 1/2/03
T: 1/2/03