402990568 | PUO | 69687681 | | 733531 | 8/12/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/14/1994 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/2/1994
PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: 1. RIGHT LOWER EXTREMITY CLAUDICATION
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: RIGHT FEMORAL POPLITEAL BYPASS
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This patient is a 54-year-old woman
with a history of hypertension ,
coronary artery disease , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and
adult onset diabetes , who now presents for right lower extremity
revascularization. The patient was admitted to Pagham University Of with severe chest pain on 1/5/92 . At that time , the
patient emergently underwent a coronary artery bypass graft after
dissection of her right coronary artery during angioplasty. She
had a coronary artery bypass graft times three ( LIMA to the LAD ,
saphenous vein graft to RCA times two ). Postoperatively , she had
an intra-aortic balloon pump placed. Immediately postoperatively ,
the patient lost pulses in her right lower extremity. She
underwent an emergent fem-fem bypass graft with return of her
pulses. The patient's postoperative course was uneventful.
Since that time , the patient has had persistent lower extremity
claudication symptoms in her right lower extremity. She underwent
angioplasty of her right SFA on 4/10 with resolution of the
angiographically evident stenosis , however , she has had persistent
symptoms. The patient now presents with right lower extremity
claudication after 10 feet. She denies any chest pain or rest
pain. She denies any shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Significant for hypertension. 2.
Coronary artery disease. 3. Peptic ulcer
disease. 4. Adult onset diabetes. 5. Chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease. PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: The patient is status
post coronary artery bypass graft in 1992 , status post
fem-fem bypass graft in 1992 , status post angioplasty in 4/10 .
MEDICATIONS: Pepcid 20 mg b.i.d. , Procardia XL 60 mg q d ,
Lopressor 50 in the morning , 25 at noon and 50 at night , Glucotrol
7.5 mg q a.m. , an aspirin a day 500 mg q a.m. , Hydrochlorothiazide
25 mg q d , Elavil 50 mg q h.s. , and K-Dur 20 mg q d. ALLERGIES:
The patient has a reaction to Amoxicillin. SOCIAL HISTORY:
Cigarettes one pack a day times 35 years and the patient is still
smoking.
LABORATORY STUDIES: Electrolytes were within normal limits. BUN
of 9 and creatinine of .9. LFTs were within
normal limits. White count of 8 , hematocrit of 50. PT and PTT
were within normal limits. Chest x-ray showed no acute disease.
EKG showed normal sinus rhythm with no acute disease. Noninvasive
vasculars showed no DP on the right , PT of .56for an ABI. DP on
the left was .8 and PT was .9.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was a pleasant woman in no
apparent distress. Head/neck examination
were unremarkable. Lungs were clear to auscultation. Cardiac
examination was unremarkable. Abdomen was obese , soft , non-tender
and non-distended and bowel sounds were positive. There was a
palpable fem-fem graft with a positive thrill. Extremities showed
left groin site without hematoma , 2+ femoral pulses with 2+ left
sided DP and PT pulses , 1+ DP palpable. The PT was dopplerable on
monophasic.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted after angio which she
tolerated without difficulty. There was no
hematoma on her left groin. The patient was seen by Cardiology who
cleared for the revascularization recommending monitored bed and
serial EKGs and CPKs postoperatively. The patient was taken to the
Operating Room on 3/7/94 for right lower extremity
revascularization. At that time , the patient underwent a right
fem-pop bypass graft without complication. There were no
complications. For details of the operation , please see the
dictated Operative Note.
The patient's postoperative course was unremarkable. She was
afebrile and vital signs were within normal limits. The patient
had a dopplerable pulse on postoperative day #1 and for the
remainder of her hospital course. The patient's wound from her
groin had persistent serous drainage for which the patient had
t.i.d. dressing changes while in the hospital. She will be
discharged to home with VNA for b.i.d. dressing changes because of
the serous drainage has been persistent. In the upper aspect of
the patient's wound , there was some erythema for which she was
maintained on I.V. antibiotics during her hospital stay and will be
discharged on po antibiotics. There was no active purulent
drainage from any of the wound sites. The patient was ambulating
without difficulty. She was tolerating a regular diet and
urinating and having normal bowel movements. The staples were left
intact at the time of discharge because of the patient's diabetes.
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to home on 2/9/94
with VNA for b.i.d. dressing changes. MEDICATIONS ON
DISCHARGE: Keflex 500 mg q.i.d. times five days days , Percocet 1
to 2 tablets q 3 to 4 h prn pain. The patient is to resume taking
all her previous medications as normally scheduled. FOLLOW-UP
CARE: The patient is to follow up with Dr. Abson in 1 to 2
weeks for evaluation.
Dictated By: GENNY BARRETTE , M.D. EV52
Attending: NATHAN J. ABSON , M.D. RA17  IZ473/9527
Batch: 6329 Index No. NEHG5G5B4Q D: 2/9/94
T: 10/13/94