546539207 | PUO | 65571399 | | 9246492 | 6/13/2004 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/10/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/19/2004
ATTENDING: RASHEEDA BRAGAS MD
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: CHF exacerbation.
LIST OF PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES:
1. CHF.
2. CAD status post CABG in 1988.
3. Chronic renal insufficiency.
4. Type II diabetes.
5. Glaucoma.
6. Hypercholesterolemia.
7. History of bowel resection for diverticulitis.
8. Question of TIA in the past with right-sided numbness.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Ms. Tin is an 83-year-old africaan-speaking female with history
of CAD , distant three-vessel CABG , CRI , NSTEMI in 10/29 ,
treated with just medications , EF of 75% in 10/29 , who
presented one week of PND , dyspnea on exertion , and chest
heaviness. This chest sensation did not radiate and was
unassociated with nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis or
lightheadedness. The patient also had cough with green sputum x1
year , no fevers or chills , no sick contacts. EMS gave Lasix and
Nitrospray. In the ED , she was briefly on a nonrebreather mask ,
responded to 80 mg of IV Lasix , K was 5.8 and got Kayexalate.
She became comfortable , sitting at 75 degrees , chest pain-free.
Also , noted no change in bowel/bladder habits , no change in meds
and no dietary changes. She had positive progressive lower
extremity edema x2 weeks.
ALLERGIES:
Lisinopril leading to hyperkalemia.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
Retired textile worker from Westwark Scond Ston , lives with daughter , and is
portugese speaking.
HOME MEDICATIONS:
Aspirin , metoprolol , allopurinol , valsartan , glipizide , Lipitor ,
and nifedipine.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:
Temperature was 96 , pulse was 70 , blood pressure was 148/56 ,
respiratory rate was 20 , and saturating 100% on nonrebreather and
eventually in the high 90s on a couple of liters of oxygen. In
general , she was in no acute distress , JVP 12 cm with positive
hepatojugular reflux , soft bibasilar rales , regular rate and
rhythm , 2-3/6 systolic murmur , loudest at the left upper sternal
border , ( mild AS on echo from 1/26 ). Abdomen was soft ,
nontender , and nondistended , bowel sounds positive. Extremities
showed 3+ bilateral pitting ankle edema with weak distal pulses.
LABORATORY DATA:
Showed a sodium of 129 , potassium of 5.7 , creatinine of 2.8 with
a baseline anywhere between 2 and 3.5 , cardiac enzymes negative
x1 , BNP of 1448. EKG showed normal sinus rhythm at 73 , septal
Qs , QTC of 456. Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly , small bilateral
effusions , no infiltrate.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEMS:
1. Cardiovascular: Ischemia: Rule out MI by enzymes and EKG
with a full set negative. Continued her aspirin , beta-blockers ,
and statin for coronary artery disease. Pump: CHF flare with
elevated BNP , volume overload , diuresed with Lasix and Diuril;
salt/water restricted , kept strict I/O with moderate diuresis.
After load reduced with ARB , weaned off her previous home calcium
channel blocker. Rhythm: Telemetry showing transient new atrial
fibrillation with a maximum heart rate of less than 70 , which
spontaneously resolved after several hours. An echo showed
stable aortic stenosis without any acute worsening. She also had
a rhythm strip on the telemetry showing a regular focus of
ventricular ectopy , also spontaneously resolving. This was
treated with continued beta-blockers. At the time of discharge ,
she was in normal sinus rhythm.
2. Renal: Chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine
of 2.8 to 3.3 , with acute worsening in-house , most likely
secondary to over diuresis with Diuril/Lasix , also some prerenal
component secondary to fluid restriction. Her potassium was
elevated initially , got Kayexalate , and then was low/low normal
after Lasix. Creatinine peaked at 4.1 , Lasix and ARBs were held.
Urine study showed a prerenal component , also showed some
proteinuria. Her creatinine eventually improved to 3.3 , and her
bicarb improved from 17 to 23 with the closing of her acid gap
from 17 to 11. Potassium was 4.5 at the time of discharge. The
patient will need to follow up with Dr. Younker , her
nephrologist , and she was set up for an appointment on 2/18/04 .
3. Endocrine: DM-2 , she was treated with regular sliding scale
insulin with good blood sugar control. Her glipizide was held
given that her creatinine clearance was worsening. We did not
restart her glipizide at the time of discharge until follow up
with Dr. Goud given her overall worsening creatinine
clearance.
4. Rheumatology: History of gout , change her allopurinol to
q.72h. from q.o.d. secondary to creatinine clearance. She did
complain of some left heel pain and left foot pain , thought
secondary to her gout. This improved at the time of discharge.
5. Heme: Hematocrit dropped from 29 to 25 , her guaiac was
negative on the 2/5/04 . She also has epistaxis at night for
four to five days. She was placed on humidified room air given
nasal saline sprays and Afrin. Because of her coronary artery
disease , she was transfused total of 3 units over the course of
her hospital stay to keep her hematocrit greater than 30. She
was given Lasix after her transfusions. An ENT evaluation showed
a small area of ulceration in her posterior nasopharynx , which
will need a follow up possibly with a CT as an outpatient to rule
out malignancy. At the time of her discharge , her hematocrit was
36. Initially , Coumadin was started given her new onset of
atrial fibrillation. After consideration of risks versus benefit
of anticoagulation , her transient atrial fibrillation which
resolved spontaneously , it was decided to continue any further
anticoagulation and send her out just on aspirin. She did
receive subcutaneous heparin for DVT prophylaxis while in-house.
GI: The patient initially had some constipation , which was
relieved with stool softeners. The patient's stool was guaiac
negative. The patient received the PPI.
DISPOSITION:
The daughter who is the patient's healthcare proxy was made aware
of the patient's status and disposition throughout her hospital
course. A PT evaluation indicated that the patient would benefit
from a period of re-stay at rehab , however the patient family
preferred the patient to go home and was constant that they would
be able to provide 24/7 support over the next week as the patient
will need help in navigating her home which included two flights
of stairs. PT was comfortable with this and this was explained
thoroughly to the patient and her family with regard to the risks
versus benefit of going home versus going to rehab. The patient
will follow up with Dr. Goud in one to two weeks , which has
not been scheduled , and with Dr. Younker with Nephrology which
has been scheduled for 2/18/04 . Communication was made with Dr.
Goud regarding her admission here. The patient will be sent
home with VNA support to follow up on her weights and fluid
status , she will also have home physical therapy.
CODE STATUS:
Full code.
MEDICATIONS:
1. Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d.
2. Lipitor 80 mg p.o. q.d.
3. Metoprolol sustained release 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for constipation.
5. Allopurinol 100 mg p.o. q.72h.
4. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
5. Valsartan 160 mg p.o. q.d.
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN:
Julissa Goud , M.D.
eScription document: 8-1392625 BFFocus
Dictated By: CRIDGE , LORRETTA
Attending: BRAGAS , RASHEEDA
Dictation ID 7407155
D: 7/27/04
T: 4/13/04