128497124 | PUO | 84843297 | | 602961 | 4/14/1997 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIBE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/14/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 8/8/1997
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. SHORTNESS OF BREATH.
2. HYPERTENSION.
3. DIABETES.
4. HISTORY OF MITRAL REGURGITATION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 68 year old female
with a history of long standing
hypertension and diabetes who says that she had been doing well
until approximately one week prior to admission when she was in Days Ty for a wedding and during that time she was unable to follow
her normal strict low salt diet. During that time and since the
time back in Co the patient began having increasing shortness
of breath , dyspnea on exertion and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea.
The patient on the night prior to admission was unable to sleep
secondary to shortness of breath and sitting up most of the
evening. She went to see her doctor , Dr. Viray in Clinic the
next morning who found her to be in congestive heart failure and
recommended her to go to I Warho Hospital .  While in the
Emergency Room the patient was given Procardia XL 20 mg p.o. x 1
for a systolic blood pressure greater than 200 , Aspirin , Nitropaste
and IV Lasix. The patient had significant response to the IV Lasix
with complete resolution of her shortness of breath and was
admitted to the Short Stay Unit for evaluation.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As mentioned above and included a stress
echocardiogram in the past which showed
mitral regurgitation , hypokinesis of the septum and AV block on
exertion with an ejection fraction of about 40%.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Cardura , Vasotec and Metoprolol.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Denies any tobacco. Lives with her husband.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature was 98.2 , respirations 14. Her
heart rate was 40 , blood pressure 148/70 ,
saturation 95% on room air. She was a pleasant woman , greek
speaking only and was able to speak in full sentences. Neck was
supple with no carotid bruits. Jugular venous pressure was
approximately 8 cm. Lungs clear to auscultation without any
crackles. Heart was in regular rate and rhythm with a II/VI
systolic murmur radiating out to the apex. Abdomen was soft and
nontender. Extremities were without any edema.
LABORATORY DATA: Her electrocardiogram showed bradycardia at 40
with a left bundle branch pattern and she had 2:1
AV block. Her chest x-ray showed an enlarged heart with pleural
effusions and cephalization which was often shown with congestive
heart failure. Her laboratory data SMA-7 was within normal limits.
Her white count was 3.8. Her Hematocrit was 37.9 , Platelet Count
182. Her CPK was within normal limits as were her coagulations.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Short Stay Unit
for further evaluation and was ruled out with
serial CPK's. She was seen by the Cardiology Group who on further
evaluation of her also felt that even with the resolution of her
congestive heart failure she was ready to go home with adjustment
in her blood pressure medications and felt that with her
bradycardia she would not be able to tolerate her Lopressor. It
was felt that the Lopressor was extremely important in her
anti-ischemic regimen and in discussing with her outpatient
Cardiologist , Dr. Trench , it was felt that a pacemaker placement
would be in her best interest. In that way she could have good
control of her heart rate and maximization of her blood pressure
medications and her increased tolerance of beta blockers. The
patient then underwent pacemaker placement without any difficulty
and it was interrogated the day after placement without any
problem. The patient was doing well with only minimal pain at the
incision site.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged in stable condition with
no reportable disease and no adverse drug reactions.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Keflex 250 mg p.o. q.i.d. for 5 days;
Norvasc 5 mg p.o. qd; Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. qd and Vasotec
20 mg p.o. b.i.d. FOLLOW-UP CARE: The patient will follow-up with
her Cardiologist , Dr. Dong Trench in one week and will probably have
her blood pressure medications further adjusted at that point.
Dictated By: MYRON VANIER , M.D. CW89
Attending: MYRON VANIER , M.D. RH26  WI858/4193
Batch: 81383 Index No. G2LFY7392L D: 2/19/97
T: 11/16/97