472510821 | PUO | 58706198 | | 2756623 | 11/18/2004 12:00:00 AM | FEVER , END STAGE RENAL DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/1/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 7/10/2004
ATTENDING: ISAAC BOOKER VAUSE M.D.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:
Bronchitis and volume overload.
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. End-stage renal disease.
2. Diabetes.
3. Bronchitis.
4. Hypertension.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Ms. Huertes is a 71-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease
who presents after being discharged from two recent admission to
Pagham University Of 24 hours after she went to
rehabilitation with fevers , diffuse body pains , and hypertension.
She was admitted from 8/1/2003 to 11/12/2004 for volume
overload treated to the hemodialysis as well as antibiotics ,
vancomycin , gentamicin , and azithromycin for pneumonia. From the
1/27/2004 through 10/4/2004 she was readmitted and presented
with increased lipase , right upper quadrant pain , shortness of
breath , nausea , and decreased oral intake. She was dialyzed and
the lipase was felt to be elevated from poor renal clearance. An
MRI was obtained at that time , which revealed no acute
abnormalities. Transesophageal echocardiogram was also obtained
at that time because of the prior positive blood culture and it
was negative for vegetation or severe valve disease. A chest CT
during this previous admission showed a resolved right pleural
effusion and some improved interstitial pulmonary edema.
On the day prior to admission , she woke up sick and tired at
rehab. She developed a nonproductive cough and some mild
pleuritic chest pain. In addition , she experienced some right
upper and right lower quadrant pain , which she had also had
during her most recent hospitalization. At Ahohi , her heart rate was 94 , blood pressure 183/81 , and
she was 94% on 2 liters of nasal cannula. She was febrile to
102.5 and was experiencing chills. She was brought into the
emergency department where she was found to have blood pressure
of 134/67. She received 2 mg of morphine approximately a liter
of normal saline and some Tylenol. A CT scan of her abdomen
revealed a fibroid uterus and left kidney cystic lesion.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Her admission physical examination was significant for
temperature of 100.2 , blood pressure of 102/53 , and saturating
98% on 2 liters. The patient was mildly anxious. She was
normocephalic and atraumatic and had surgical pupils bilaterally.
Her neck was supple and her jugular venous pressure was 8 cm.
She had decreased breath sounds throughout and had fine scattered
rales throughout her lung fields. Heart was regular rate and
rhythm with normal S1 and S2 with a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur
at the right upper sternal border without any radiation. Her
abdomen was obese , soft , nontender , and nondistended with good
bowel sounds. Her extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis , or
edema. She did have a right arm fistula for hemodialysis with a
good thrill. Neurologically , she was alert and oriented x3
and had a steady gait with a walker.
LABORATORY DATA:
Her admission laboratory data was significant for a uremia
related to her end-stage renal disease , normal LFTs , cardiac
enzymes less than assay , and a white count of 17.2 up from 9.2
just two days earlier. Her hematocrit is at baseline of 30.1.
Her UA revealed 2 to 4 white cells , 1+ bacteria , and 8 to 10
hyaline casts. Chest x-ray revealed cardiomegaly with no
effusions and some mildly prominent pulmonary vasculature. EKG
revealed normal sinus rhythm and T-wave inversions at 5 and 6 as
well as 1 and AVR , which are old.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Renal: Ms. Huertes was maintained on hemodialysis Tuesday ,
Thursday , and Saturdays while in hospital and was followed by the
renal service daily. She was maintained on PhosLo calcium
carbonate and Nephrocaps for optimum mineral balance while on
dialysis. Her right arm fistula had a good thrill throughout.
On her very first day of admission , she became hypertensive
during dialysis , but had a normal blood pressure again after
receiving back the ultrafiltration fluid that had been taken off.
Also of note during her hospital stay , given her fevers and
unrevealing infectious workup , an MRI was completed with a renal
protocol to evaluate this left renal cyst. The cyst was
complicated and appeared to have septations. However , it did not
enhance and upon review with the radiologist it was deemed very
unlikely that this cyst would represent a renal cell carcinoma.
However , her UA did have 1 to 2+ positive blood on repeat in the
hospital without a Foley. At the time of discharge her urine
cytology was pending at the time of discharge.
2. Infectious disease: Given the fact that Ms. Huertes presented
with intermittent fevers all the way up to 102 , some mild
hypertension associated with dialysis , and previous positive
blood cultures , an infectious disease consult was called. After
extensive infectious disease workup including blood cultures ,
urine cultures , abdomen CTs , as well as induced sputum , no source
for infection was revealed. However , it was felt that Ms. Huertes
may have had a viral upper respiratory tract infection and/or
bronchitis which was not treated. She received a single dose of
vancomycin and gentamicin upon admission for her hypertension and
fever , but received no further antibiotics during her hospital
stay. She was afebrile during the last seven days and had a
stable white count and no left shift. Workup
for infectious disease included an HIV test , which was negative.
She was PPD negative. Her induced sputum was negative for
fungus , mycoplasma , and PCP. Her abdominal CT revealed no
obvious abscess and urine analysis was negative. Blood cultures
x2 as well as cultures from previous admissions were held for
fungal and hacek organisms , all of which were negative.
3. Pulmonary: Ms. Huertes 's only stable complaint from her
previous hospital stays has been mild dyspnea. She experienced
dyspnea on exertion after walking 10 to 15 feet. A chest CT from
her last admission revealed no interstitial lung disease , no
significant pulmonary edema , and no infiltrative disease. She
had a set of PSP on 3/11/2003 , which revealed a restrictive
physiology , but may not have had sufficient effort. The
pulmonary consult was called. Of note , the patient had an
echocardiogram from 9/1 , which revealed a pulmonary artery
systolic pressure of 59. It was felt that this may have been
spurious as the previous echocardiogram revealed aortic pressure
in the 30s. She received a repeat an transthoracic
echocardiogram which showed a pulmonary artery systolic pressure
of 36% in right atrium. This is her baseline pressure. The
previous pressure was probably artificially elevated because of
volume overload. This means that it is unlikely that pulmonary
hypertension is causing her shortness of breath. Overnight pulse
oximetry revealed no desaturations and there is a very low
probability of sleep apnea despite habitus and a low probability
based on her history. She does not report any daytime
somnolence. It is possible that outpatient pulmonary function
test and sleep studies will be considered if this dyspnea
continues. There was no need for a right heart catheterization
nor was there any need to pursue further imaging to think about
chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. By the time she
was discharged and working with PT regularly , Ms. Huertes 's
dyspnea was significantly improved. It is still unclear why she
was no dyspneic and may be a combination of deconditioning ,
repeated hospitalizations , and will be improved with
rehabilitation.
4. Cardiovascular: Ms. Huertes is exhibiting no signs or
ischemia. Her EKG showed chronic lateral T-wave inversions. Her
cardiac enzymes were negative. She was maintained on the baby
aspirin as well as beta-blocker throughout her hospital stay.
Ms. Huertes did have a transthoracic echocardiogram which revealed
an estimated ejection fraction of 45 to 50% , some mid septal and
lateral hypokinesis which was old , some mildly thickened aortic
valve with no aortic insufficiency , mildly thickened mitral valve
with mild mitral regurgitation. Her tricuspid valve revealed
there as mild TR and a tricuspid jet of 3 meters per second ,
which was translated into a pulmonary artery systolic pressure of
36 mmHg right atrial pressure. Also , of note she had biatrial
enlargement and normal right ventricle size and function. After
the initial episode of hypertension and hemodialysis , Ms. Huertes
was normotensive throughout the remainder of her hospital stay
and was discharged on a beta-blocker as well as ACE inhibitor.
5. FEN/GI: Ms. Huertes 's abdominal pain resolved on day two of
hospitalization and given a negative CT , normal movements , and no
further abdominal pain , nausea , or vomiting , it was felt that
this may have been related to either due to either viral
gastroenteritis or irritable bowel syndrome. The patient was
maintained on proton pump inhibition and while inhouse had a low
sodium diabetic diet with 1800 calories as well as low potassium
for her renal care.
6. Disposition: Physical therapy consulted early in Ms.
Bartleson hospital stay and agreed that she would benefit from
subacute rehabilitation to get her strength back after these
multiple hospitalizations. She was given a walker and could walk
with assistance on a rolling walker. Unfortunately , her home has
stairs and is ill equipped for such a transition from walker to
home so she will benefit from rehabilitation. Ms. Huertes was
discharged in stable condition and will follow up with her
primary care doctor Dr. Knecht at KTDUOO Clinic.
ALLERGIES:
1. IV contrast dye.
2. Penicillins.
3. Methyldopa.
4. Prazosin.
5. Micronase.
6. Dyazide.
7. Enalapril.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
2. PhosLo 1334 mg p.o. t.i.d.
3. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4. Glipizide 5 mg p.o. q.d.
5. Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d.
7. Senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d.
8. Simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.h.s.
9. Tessalon Perles 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. cough.
10. Nephrocaps 1 tablet p.o. q.d.
11. Calcium carbonate 1000 mg p.o. q.h.s.
12. Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d.
13. Toprol XL 50 mg p.o. q.d. , hold if systolic blood pressure
less than 100 or heart rate less than 55. Also hold on the
mornings of dialysis until after dialysis.
FOLLOW UP:
Ms. Huertes with follow up with Dr. Martine Knecht at Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of and that can be reached at
338-823-2634.
She will resume dialysis at the P Therford Hospital under the care of Dr. Tabatha Hollway .
eScription document: 1-9130066 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: FIGURA , CAREY
Attending: WERNER REGINIA CASEBIER , M.D. YQ0
Dictation ID 0794412
D: 1/9/04
T: 1/9/04