518371046 | PUO | 58113739 | | 238628 | 8/24/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/14/1996 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 2/2/1996
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: UNSTABLE ANGINA.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Bao Zupfer is a
68-year-old psychiatrist with a
history of hypertension , recent positive exercise test several
weeks prior to admission who now presented with increasing
frequency of chest pain with exertion , as well as at rest. The
patient is admitted for cardiac catheterization.
The patient states that he has been in good health all of his life ,
with history of some hypertension and sinus tachycardia. He is
followed by Drs. Clint Eboni Defore . A routine exercise stress test had
been reported as equivocal for coronary artery disease. Records of
this test are currently unavailable. Since 1995 , the patient has
done well without any anginal symptoms until February 1996 when he
was admitted to the Pagham University Of for rule out
myocardial infarction after experiencing recurrent palpitations and
sudden feelings of hunger associated with chest pressure. At that
time , there were no EKG changes. His CK and troponin levels were
flat. No arrhythmias were noted during the brief hospitalization.
He was discharged on a beta blocker , as well as a calcium channel
blocker. In September 1996 , the patient underwent a repeat annual
exercise stress test. This time , he was able to go only 4.4
minutes , stopped with fatigue , shortness of breath , and
palpitations , noted to correlate with atrial premature beats. He also
developed 4/10 chest pressure that was relieved with rest and
nitroglycerin. His maximum heart rate was 127 , maximum blood
pressure 120/60. EKGs during exercise revealed 2 mm ST depressions
in leads II , III , AVF , and V4 , and 1 mm depressions in leads V3 ,
V5 , and V6. These EKG changes persisted into 30 minutes of
recovery.
In the four weeks following this positive ETT , the patient noted a
drastic decrease in his exercise capacity and he developed onset of
substernal chest pain with exertion. This discomfort was
associated with shortness of breath , no clear radiation. There was
never any nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , or palpitations associated
with this chest pain. In the two weeks prior to admission , the
patient developed similar substernal chest pain at rest on several
occasions. All of these were relieved with sublingual
nitroglycerin.
On the evening prior to admission , the patient developed substernal
chest pain during a music concert. This occurred at rest and
lasted approximately 10 minutes , relieved with one sublingual
nitroglycerin. The next morning , the patient notified his primary
cardiologist about the increased frequency of his chest pain , and
he was , therefore , admitted for cardiac catheterization.
The patient on admission , was chest pain-free , denies palpitations ,
and shortness of breath. His cardiac risk factors include his age ,
sex , smoking history , positive family history , and elevated
cholesterol level. The patient denies orthopnea , paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea , and ankle edema. He has no pleuritic chest pain
and no calf tenderness.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Hypertension. 2. "Palpitations" ,
question of premature atrial contractions.
3. Benign prostatic hypertrophy. 4. Depression.
ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to horse serum which causes a
rash.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: 1. Sular 10 mg q.day. 2. Zebeta 5 mg
q.day. 3. Zoloft 50 mg q.day. 4. Enteric
coated aspirin 325 mg q.day.
FAMILY HISTORY: The patient's mother suffered a myocardial
infarction in her 70s , also history of strokes.
The patient's father had a stroke and died of a cerebral
hemorrhage.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married and lives with his wife in
Fullsonxing He is currently still
practicing as a psychiatrist. He has a 25 year smoking history , up
to three packs per day. He quit five years ago. He denies alcohol
use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is a pleasant , well built ,
white male lying in bed in no
apparent distress. His temperature was 97.6 , pulse 56 , blood
pressure 110/64 , and respiratory rate 20. HEENT examination was
anicteric. Oropharynx had no lesions. Neck was supple with no
lymphadenopathy. There were brisk carotid upstrokes , but with no
bruits. His JVP was around 6 cm. His lungs were clear to
auscultation. There was no costovertebral angle tenderness. His
heart examination had a regular rate and rhythm with a I/VI
systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border. His
abdomen was soft , nontender , with normal bowel sounds. There was
no hepatosplenomegaly. Femoral pulses were 2+ bilaterally without
bruits. His extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.
He had 2+ DP and PT pulses. Neurologic examination was nonfocal.
His deep tendon reflexes were reduced to 0-1+ bilaterally.
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium was 144 , potassium 4.5 , chloride 104 ,
bicarbonate 23 , BUN 20 , and creatinine 1.4.
Liver function tests were all within normal limits. His CBC
revealed a white count of 6.10 , hematocrit 37.9 , and platelet count
285 , 000. His PT was 11.8 , PTT 28.5. His fasting cholesterol , done
prior to admission , revealed a triglyceride of 121 , HDL 43 , and LDL
131. Urinalysis was negative. His EKG , on admission , revealed a
normal sinus rhythm at 59 beats per minute and axis up to 68
degrees with normal intervals. There was poor R wave progression
with large R waves in V1 and V2 consistent with an old posterior
infarct. There were occasional APVs with two different PT/T wave
morphologies. His chest x-ray , on admission , revealed no acute
cardiopulmonary process , unchanged from prior film.
ASSESSMENT: The patient is a 68-year-old man with history of
hypertension , positive exercise tolerance test several
weeks prior to admission , now presenting with crescendo angina for
cardiac catheterization.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the catheterization
laboratory for cardiac catheterization on the
second day of admission. The catheterization revealed a 60%-70%
proximal stenosis of his LAD and a 40% proximal stenosis of his
RCA. His left circumflex appeared normal. After an extensive
discussion with Dr. Frehse , Dr. Kush , and Dr. Ventresca , the decision
was made to stent the LAD lesion. The LAD was subsequently
successfully stented with a 0% residual stenosis. Following the
successful PTCA , the patient was placed on heparin and Ticlid for
48 hours. During this period of time , the patient had one episode
of mild chest discomfort which was epigastric in nature , and was
relieved with Maalox. There were no associated EKG changes. At
the end of the 48 hours of heparin and Ticlid , the patient was
discharged home to complete a total of 28 days of Ticlid. On the
day of discharge , the patient was started on fluvastatin for his
elevated LDL level. He is to follow up with Dr. Kush for furtther
management.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Sular 10 mg q.day , Zebeta 5 mg q.day ,
Zoloft 50 mg q.day , enteric coated aspirin
325 mg q.day , Ticlid 250 mg b.i.d. times 28 days , fluvastatin 20 mg
q.h.s. , Sarna topical p.r.n. for pruritus.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient was instructed to follow up
with Dr. Kush and to get q. other week
blood draws for check of his white count for six weeks.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient was to follow up with Dr. Kush in
the week following his discharge.
Dictated By: JOANA I. ZERBE , M.D. NH8
Attending: QUINN J. KUSH , M.D. NE5  IH195/0822
Batch: 00254 Index No. T4WDWHMSF D: 6/23/96
T: 3/25/96
CC: 1. QUINN J. KUSH , M.D. PQ5
2. Clint Defore , M.D.