356637867 | PUO | 54795665 | | 3733434 | 8/3/2005 12:00:00 AM | RULE OUT MYCOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/12/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/27/2005
ATTENDING: TONI , CARMELITA M.D.
DATE OF SURGERY:
3/1/05 .
HISTORY AND PHYSICAL:
This is a 74-year-old gentleman with a history on
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension , coronary
artery disease , with substernal chest pain on exertion , which had
been increasing for the month prior to surgery. He denies any
shortness of breath , PND or orthopnea. He has a history of
three-vessel disease on catheterization back in 1996 , status post
angioplasty without stenting. He reportedly had an abnormal
exercise tolerance test in 1996 and in 1999. He was admitted via
his primary care physician's office on 7/16/05 with substernal
chest pain and T wave inversions in leads V3 and V4. Enzymes
were cycled and they were negative x4. The patient went to the
cath on 2/7/05 and was found to have coronary artery disease.
He was scheduled for CABG.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hypertension.
2. Diabetes mellitus , on insulin therapy.
3. Hypercholesterolemia.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Unknown.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.
2. Lisinopril 40 mg p.o. daily.
3. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily.
4. Hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene one tablet daily.
5. Atorvastatin 80 mg p.o. daily.
6. Lantus 50 cc daily.
ALLERGIES:
The patient has no known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
No known social history.
FAMILY HISTORY:
No family history of coronary artery disease.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
The patient stands 5 feet 6 inches tall , weighs 97.9 kg.
Temperature was 97 , heart rate was 62 , and blood pressure was
110/64. He was on a face mask with an oxygen saturation at 95%.
On physical examination , he was alert and oriented , with no focal
deficits. HEENT showed PERRLA. No teeth , both upper and lower
dentures. No carotid bruits. Cardiovascular: Regular rate and
rhythm , with no murmurs , rubs or gallops. His Allen's test on
the left upper extremity was normal , on the right upper extremity
was normal. Respiratory: He had clear breath sounds
bilaterally. Adomen: Soft , nontender , no masses , noted to be
obese. Extremities: Without scarring , varicosities or edema.
Pulses , carotid left and right were 2+ , radial left and right
were 2+ , femoral left and right were 2+ , dorsalis pedis were left
and right present by Doppler , and posterior tibial were left and
right present by Doppler.
ADMISSION LABORATORY VALUES:
Sodium of 137 , K of 4.2 , BUN of 35 , and creatinine of 1.3. White
blood cell count was 7 , hematocrit was 38 , and platelet count was
179 , 000. INR was 1.1. His UA was described as contaminated.
Cardiac cath from 2/7/05 , which was performed at the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of ,
showed a 95% ostial LAD lesion , a 60% mid LAD lesion , an 80%
distal LAD lesion , a 70% proximal D1 lesion , a 40% proximal
circumflex lesion , a 90% ostial OM1 lesion , a 100% proximal RCA
lesion , and a right dominant circulation. Echo from 9/10/05
showed a 60% ejection fraction , with trace to mild mitral
regurgitation , no wall motion abnormalities. An EKG on 2/7/05
showed a normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 52 , inverted T waves
in V3 , V4 , V5 and V6. A chest x-ray from 11/22/05 was read out
as normal.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was taken to Surgery on 3/1/05 . The preoperative diagnosis was
unstable angina , three-vessel disease and morbid obesity. The procedure was a
CABG x3. The patient had an anaphylactoid response to aprotinin and
subsequently had an all vein CABG. There was a Y graft , SVG1 connecting SVG2
to the LAD , SVG2 connecting the aorta to OM1 , and SVG3 connecting to PDA. The
patient was brought up from the operating room to the Cardiac Surgery
Intensive Care Unit in stable condition. He was extubated on postoperative
day #1. He did well over the next several days. He had some intermittent
confusion , but neuro exam was essentially nonfocal , and the patient was
transferred to the Step-Down Unit on postoperative day #4. At that time ,
neurologically , he was intact. Of note , he had a ventricular fibrillation
arrest in the operating room because of the aprotinin reaction in the
operating room with systolic pressures in the 40s. Open cardiac massage was
required , and he was defibrillated. They used lidocaine and amiodarone during
the code. His CK-MB rose to 37.5 , and his CK was 1646. After his procedure ,
the patient did wake up and was neurologically intact. The patient was on a
regular diet. He had had problems with abdominal distention , but this had
resolved. The patient had also been noted to have an increased creatinine.
However , this also resolved. The patient was a known diabetic and was on
NovoLog sliding scale , and also receiving Lantus. The patient has no
infectious disease issues at that time. The patient was in the Step-Down Unit ,
and on postoperative day #5 , he was noted to spike. Cultures were sent off
which grew out 3+ Gram-native rods. He was started on Flagyl for presumed
aspiration pneumonia. He also is noted to have a positive UTI and was started
on levofloxacin at that time. He also was noted to have a rise in his
creatinine and this was followed as well. On postoperative day #8 , the
patient was again spiked up to 101. Pancultures were sent out as well. He was
found to have a beta-lactamase-resistant E. coli in his urine. This prompted
an ID consult , and the patient was started on nitrofurantoin. Also , at this
time , around postoperative day #9 , it was noted that the patient began to have
some serous drainage from his sternal wound. He was followed by Infectious
Disease at that time , and over the course of the next several days , it was
discovered that the wound grew out Gram-negative rods. A Plastic Surgery
consult was obtained for the patient after a CT scan showed some nonunion of
the sternal table and collection of fluid underneath the sternum. On
postoperative day #11 , it was decided that the patient would benefit from
incision and drainage plus pectoral flap or omental flap for sternal wound
infection , so the patient was taken back to the operating room on 1/25/05 for
incision and drainage of a deep sternal wound infection. At the time of
surgery , a purulent liquid material was expressed through the skin. The
incision was made. The sternum was noted to be totally separated with most of
the wires having been pulled through. The wound was irrigated , and an omental
flap with pectoral advancement was performed. The patient returned from the
operating room to the Surgery Intensive Care Unit where he was again confused ,
however , was able to be easily returned to baseline. Following these
recommendations , the nitrofurantoin was discontinued and the patient was
started on imipenem. Also , the patient was noted to be growing Enterobacter
in his urine and he was started no ceftazidime. The patient did well in the
ICU. He improved from a neuro status. His chest wound healed without
difficulty. He had one brief episode of atrial fibrillation during a coughing
spell , but this also resolved , and the patient was continued on his
antihypertensive medication. The patient was deemed fit for transfer on a
postoperative day #18 back from the ICU once again to the Step-Down Unit.
SUMMARY BY SYSTEM:
1. Neurologically , the patient is portugese-speaking only. He is
intact , moving all extremities , getting in and out of bed , and
very independent.
2. Cardiovascular: The patient's heart rate is in 70 to 80 ,
sinus. Blood pressure is 100s to 150s , means are 70s to 100s.
He is on Lopressor 25 mg q.6h. and on amlodipine 5 mg b.i.d.
3. Respiratory: The patient is on room air , saturating 98%.
4. GI: The patient is advanced diet as tolerated , having bowel
movements , on a diabetic diet.
5. Renal: The patient's Foley is out , running negative 340 for
the day before , on Lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. Recommendations would
be to have an extra dose or so of Lasix since chest x-ray this
morning was noted to be slightly wet.
6. Endocrine: He is a diabetic. He is on Lantus , NovoLog ,
insulin , and Diabetes Management is following.
7. Heme: The patient is on aspirin and atorvastatin. He still
has chest drains , which are being followed by Plastics who wants
to keep them in.
8. ID: He has got a deep sternal infection with E. coli and is status post a
pectus as well as a omental flap closure. Imipenem was started on 11/19/05 per
ID's recommendation , needs to continue for six weeks. UTI growing out
Klebsiella and Enterobacter. Imipenem was stared on 11/19/05 , again , this will
need to be continued for six weeks. The patient is also on vancomycin for his
sternal wound infection. This was started on 1/25/05 and needs to continue
for six weeks. Currently , the patient is afebrile. White blood cell count is
10. The chest wound was noted to have a small area of erythema , however , it is
intact , and he is being followed by Plastics.
The rest of the dictation will follow when the patient is
discharged.
eScription document: 9-7198670 EMS
Dictated By: FJESETH , JOHNSIE
Attending: TONI , CARMELITA
Dictation ID 7373195
D: 5/10/05
T: 5/10/05