068924527 | PUO | 38970238 | | 747058 | 6/29/1997 12:00:00 AM | BREAST CARCINOMA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/14/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/16/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CELLULITIS.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Ms. Famiglietti is a 47-year-old woman with stage I
breast cancer admitted for spontaneous cellulitis
of the left breast.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient presented last year with
left breast mass approximately 4 cm ,
moderately aggressive histology , but was node negative and ERPR
negative. The cancer was continued T-2 , N-0 , M-0 and was treated
with lumpectomy , XRT , and four cycles of CAF ending 11/27 .  She
suffered significant skin breakdown from the radiation therapy but
improved by 11/16 .  She represented in 6/20 with two areas of
erythema with underlying lumps in the outer margin of her left
breast. At the time , it had the appearance of inflammatory breast
cancer , but a biopsy turned out to be negative for cancer. She was
treated with three days of nafcillin intravenously in the hospital ,
starting in 7/19 and has been on oral dicloxacillin since then , so
that she could take antibiotics at home. Her skin changes have
waxed and waned since then so that some physicians involved in her
care felt there was improvement in her clinical condition , although
the patient subjectively felt there was none.
More recently , the patient's breast has swollen considerably and
the overlying skin has become erythematous and the erythema has
spread to involve the entire breast and around to the back. She
denies any fevers or chills , but she feels generally ill which had
never been an issue for her. She also reported new left-sided
chest wall discomfort.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: ( 1 ) Left breast cancer as above; ( 2 ) Type II
diabetes mellitus for 1-2 years , currently
well controlled with diet and exercise. The patient takes her
blood sugars frequently and states that her sugars are usually
round 100. ( 3 ) Hypothyroidism diagnosed two years ago; ( 4 ) Low back
pain secondary to a motor vehicle accident around a year ago , not
currently an active issue; ( 5 ) Congenital partial left upper limb;
( 6 ) Depression related to her cancer.
MEDICATIONS: Dicloxacillin 500 mg q.i.d.; Synthroid 150 mcg q.d.;
Paxil 40 mg p.o. q.d.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives by herself with no significant
family to support or close friends since her
breast cancer diagnosis. She is a former private chef but lost her
job secondary to her cancer and spent all of her savings on medical
cost , because she had no insurance. Now the patient is no Medicare
and disability which is presently her only source of income. No
history of alcohol or tobacco use or abuse.
FAMILY HISTORY: One great aunt on her maternal side with breast
cancer.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Significant only for very unusually heavy
menstrual periods since her chemotherapy ,
bleeding often for 10-14 days.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS - Temp 97.8 , heart rate 88 and
regular , BP 118/92 , oxygen saturation 97% on
room air. GENERAL - The patient is a pleasant woman lying in no
acute distress. HEENT - Oropharynx unremarkable. NECK - JVP at
sternal angle , no lymphadenopathy , no thyromegaly. CHEST - Lungs
clear to auscultation and percussion except for coarse inspiratory
breath sounds over her left scapula. HEART - Normal heart sounds ,
regular rate and rhythm , with no murmurs or rubs. ABDOMEN - Normal
bowel sounds. The patient had a scar in her left upper quadrant
from an old excisional biopsy. BREASTS - Diffuse erythema and
slight peau d'orange appearance over the entire left breast with
slight erythema over the left nipple , with no nipple discharge. No
masses or axillary lymph nodes appreciated. EXTREMITIES -
Congenital left partial upper extremity with upper extremity
missing below mid upper arm.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was placed on vancomycin and
cefotaxime. There was concern that the skin
changes may have been due to prior radiation , especially given its
distribution in the back. However , the Radiation/Oncology Service
saw and followed Ms. Famiglietti over the course of this admission and
felt very strongly that the changes were not consistent with prior
radiation therapy. Further workup consisted of a bone scan which
was negative , a chest CAT scan which revealed only thick skin on
the left breast , no adenopathy , and minimal lung fibrosis. Of note
is that the patient had no fever or elevated white count over the
course of this admission. The patient had an ultrasound of her
left breast performed prior to her discharge , which revealed a
small fluid collection in the lateral margin of her left breast.
Serosanguineous fluid was aspirated from the collection and gram
stain of the fluid revealed no polys and no organisms. Culture of
the fluid showed no growth on discharge.
Prior to her discharge , a large IV line was placed in order to
continue IV antibiotics at home.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: ( 1 ) Ancef 1 gm IV q.8h. x14 days;
( 2 ) Synthroid 115 mcg p.o. q.a.m.; ( 3 ) Paxil
40 mg p.o. q.a.m.
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION: To home.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
Dictated By: COLE AINI , M.D. HD86
Attending: BIBI L. TRIGGS , M.D. YH35  NP210/5460
Batch: 25339 Index No. XHZXEF0LDJ D: 3/4/97
T: 6/10/97