145554788 | PUO | 77162931 | | 645641 | 9/18/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 2/12/1995 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 3/10/1995
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 50 year old man with
unstable angina who was referred to
the Pagham University Of for cardiac catheterization and
coronary artery bypass grafting. The patient has a four-year
history of coronary artery disease who presented with left-sided
chest pain four days prior to admission. He describes episodes of
chest pain occurring approximately q. two months as well as
evidence of shortness of breath although he has a noted picture of
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
ETT in 1989 was negative and he recently described progressively
poor exercise tolerance to the point that he was taking sublingual
NTG on a twice daily basis for exertional angina. One week prior
to admission he developed severe substernal chest discomfort at
rest , lasting approximately 10 minutes. Then , after taking a
sublingual NTG , he reported loss of consciousness for a duration of
20 to 30 seconds at which point he was taken to the Daonredd Cison Community Memorial Hospital by
an EMT. At the clinic he received intravenous NTG , heparin and
Diltiazem.
An ETT Thallium demonstrated reperfusion abnormalities in the
inferior and anterior walls. He left the Daonredd Cison Community Memorial Hospital AMA to see
his cardiologist on the 11th who referred him to the Pagham University Of for elective catheterization. At the time of
presentation he denied chest pain or shortness of breath. Cardiac
risk factors are notably an 80-pack year smoking history , family
history of heart disease , hypercholesterolemia and non
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Notable for history of interstitial lung
disease , hyperlipidemia , GE reflux , chronic bronchitis and
obstructive sleep apnea. MEDICATIONS ON ADMIT: Cardizem 120mg
p.o.b.i.d. , Mevacor 20mg p.o.b.i.d. , Pepcid 40mg p.o.q.d. , Ventolin
and Seldane taken on a prn basis. ALLERGIES: NKDA.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Six centimeters of JVD , normal cardiac
examination with intact distal pulses.
Diminished breath sounds bilaterally.
LABORATORY EVALUATION: Unremarkable.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Cardiology
Service and underwent cardiac catheterization
demonstrating 80% distal stenosis of the left main as well as the
origin of the LAD with additional occlusion of the midportion of
the LAD and distal carotid , 80% stenosis of midportion of left
circumflex and proximal occlusion of the right coronary. Previous
pulmonary function tests performed in October included an FEV-1 of
2.53 , FEV-1/FVC of 83 , FVC 3.05. He was seen preoperatively by the
Dental Service. He was felt to have a possible periodontal abscess
of tooth #32 for which a course of p.o. penicillin was recommended
and completed.
On the 13 of November , the patient received double coronary artery bypass
graft including pedicle LIMA bypass to the LAD and LAD patch
angioplasty with a single aortocoronary saphenous vein bypass graft
to the obtuse marginal. He tolerated the procedure well. He was
admitted to the Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit in routine
fashion without complications. He was stable in sinus rhythm. He
had a somewhat higher than normal O2 requirement which diminished
with diuresis.
His hospital course proceeded without complications although he did
demonstrate a low-grade fever and leukocytosis up to 20 , 000 for
which he was started on an empiric course of cefuroxime for
radiographic infiltrate although his sputum cultures were not
definitive. He was evaluated by the ID Service and cultured
appropriately with continuation of empiric antibiotics. He
continued to demonstate low-grade fevers during the course of his
hospital stay with persistent leukocytosis in the range of 14 to
16K prior to discharge. No definite source of infection was
identified.
All of his wound sites looked clean and cultures remained negative.
He was weaned off oxygen for some time. He had no productive
cough. On the 28 of November we discharged him to home AMA , although
encouraged a stay for further evaluation of his fever and
leukocytosis.
DISPOSITION: Aspirin 325mg q.d. , Diltiazem 120mg p.o.t.i.d. ,
Colace 100mg t.i.d. , iron sulfate 300mg t.i.d. , Lasix
80mg p.o.b.i.d. , Mevacor 20mg p.o.b.i.d. , MVI one p.o.q.d. ,
Percocet one to two tabs. q. 4 prn , KCl 40mil/eq p.o.b.i.d. and
ciprofloxacin 500mg p.o.b.i.d. X 10 days taken with clindamycin
300mg p.o.q.i.d. He was encouraged to see his cardiologist for
follow-up over the following week and should return to
Dr. Genny Barrette office during this interval prior to completion
of his antibiotics.
Dictated By: GAYLENE G. FANIEL , M.D. RQ51
Attending: GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D. HK9  ED912/8456
Batch: 74157 Index No. WVXIZW806B D: 5/12/95
T: 5/12/95