773096589 | PUO | 31995211 | | 6301350 | 8/27/2006 12:00:00 AM | PULMONARY EDEMA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/27/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 7/5/2006
ATTENDING: KERTESZ , ALETA M.D.
OPERATIONS:
1. CABG x3 ( Y-graft sequential: LIMA connects aorta to LAD ,
sequential SVG1 connects LIMA to OM1 and then PDA )/left atrial
appendage resection.
2. Insertion of a pacemaker on 2/19/2006 .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Eklov is a 76-year-old man with
history of atrial fibrillation who is admitted to Osri Medical Center last month with atrial fibrillation with rapid
ventricular response. At that time , he also had arm pain and
pulmonary edema. This resolved once his heart rate was
controlled. He has had atrial fibrillation for the past 30 years
and has been on Coumadin for the past 20. The patient has been
on amiodarone therapy in the past and has biopsy-demonstrated
cirrhosis as a consequence of this therapy , which has resolved
following the discontinuation of the medication. He has been
rate controlled since that time but is very sensitive even with
slight delay in his rate-slowing medications with heart rate
becoming rapid associated with a sensation of aching in his arms.
He also has a history of peripheral vascular disease with
endarterectomy of the external iliac , common femoral , and TSA
with patch angioplasty on the left in April 2000 at PUO .  He
also has a cerebrovascular disease with MRI a few years ago also
showing evidence of old small infarcts involving the right
inferior cerebellum and the old lacuna in the left anterior pons
and some patchy areas of the bilateral pons , small areas of
ischemia. He was thought to have basilar artery disease by
neurology. He complains that right side is less sensitive to
temperatures and touch than the left side but no difference in
motor activities is noted. He also has a history of coronary
artery disease. As an outpatient , MIBI in September 2006 showed
1-mm ST depression but no ischemia on imaging. Left ventricular
ejection fraction was noted to be 45% without any regional wall
motion abnormalities. Elective catheterization showed
three-vessel disease and was admitted to the Pagham University Of for CABG.
PREOPERATIVE CARDIAC STATUS: Urgent. The patient presented with
critical coronary anatomy. There is a history of class III heart
failure. The patient is in atrial fibrillation.
PREVIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR INTERVENTIONS: None.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension , peripheral vascular disease
of the lower extremities , status post endarterectomy of the
external iliac , common femoral , and TSA with patchy angioplasty
on the left in April 2000 , diabetes mellitus with insulin
therapy , hypercholesterolemia , migraine headache , and bilateral
lower extremity neuropathy due to diabetes.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Surgery for a torn right rotator cuff ,
August 2006 , and as above.
FAMILY HISTORY: Father had a stroke.
SOCIAL HISTORY: History of tobacco use , cigarette smoking
history but quit smoking many years ago.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin - skin edema , quinidine - rash , and
amiodarone - cirrhosis of the liver.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS:
1. Diltiazem 360 p.o. daily.
2. Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. daily.
3. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.
4. Coumadin p.o. as directed.
5. Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily.
6. Simvastatin 80 mg p.o. daily.
7. Metformin 500 mg b.i.d.
8. Insulin.
CARDIAC CATHETERIZATION DATA: Coronary anatomy: 95% mid LM , 60%
ostial LAD , 50% proximal circumflex , 100% proximal RCA , right
dominant circulation , and marginal diffuse 99%.
ECG: Atrial fibrillation at 90 beats per minute , nonspecific
intraventricular delay , Q-waves in V3 , poor R wave progression ,
precordial leads , and ST elevation in V2 and V3.
CHEST X-RAY: Normal , atherosclerotic aortic knob.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the intensive care
unit following an uncomplicated coronary artery bypass graft as
described above as well as a left atrial appendage resection.
His bypass time was 106 minutes with cross-clamp time of 61
minutes. One ventricular wire and one pericardial tube was
placed. A retrosternal tube and a right pleural tube were also
placed. Please see dictated operative note for details.
Following his operation , he was transferred to the ICU for
further care and management. The patient was extubated on
postoperative day #1 and was given supplemental O2 nasal cannula
at that time. On postoperative day #2 , the patient's chest tubes
were removed , and his pacing wires were left in place since the
patient was found to be asystolic as an underlying rhythm. The
patient remained in atrial fibrillation and alternated with sinus
rhythm with first-degree AV block. His atrial fibrillation was
difficult to control in the acute postoperative setting , and
cardiology consult was obtained for further care and management
of the patient. On postoperative day #3 , the patient had
shortness of breath and was given Lasix for diuresis. He was 2
liters negative on postoperative day #3 , though he was still
increased from his preoperative weight. His pacing wires were
discontinued on postoperative day #3 as the patient was found to
have return of his underlying rhythm. He was started on
Lopressor and on diltiazem at that time. On postoperative day
#4 , the patient's diltiazem was changed to diltiazem CD 360 mg
and atenolol 50 mg daily per Dr. Bachmann . The patient was
given a PT consult for home safety evaluation on that day. On
postoperative day #8 , the patient had an episode of symptomatic
sinus bradycardia and as a result received a transvenous
pacemaker by the electrophysiology service for the control of the
sinus bradycardia , and on the day of discharge from the ICU , the
patient was taken for permanent pacemaker placement by the
electrophysiology team.
The patient's pain was controlled with Tylenol without
significant pain requirement issues. He was intact
neurologically on day of discharge , moving all four extremities ,
and appropriate. From a cardiovascular standpoint , the patient
was given his pacemaker and was still in atrial fibrillation as
his underlying rhythm. He was given 50 of atenolol as well as
extended release of diltiazem 360 daily. He was on room satting
appropriately and was given Atrovent on a p.r.n. basis. He was
tolerating POs and getting Nexium and Colace from a GI
perspective. The patient was receiving diuresis with Lasix of 40
p.o. b.i.d. , and his electrolytes were supplemented. From a
hematologic standpoint , he was given aspirin 81 mg , and his
Coumadin will be restarted. He had no significant infectious
disease issues on the day of discharge. From endocrine
perspective , the patient was given NPH 24 units q.a.m. and 20
units q.p.m and his baseline sliding scale in addition to NovoLog
10 units as a standing order.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to the cardiac step-down
unit.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Good.
FOLLOWUP: The patient was instructed to follow up with his
attending physician , Dr. Kertesz , in 1-2 weeks following
discharge.
eScription document: 0-2999224 HFFocus
Dictated By: CRITTLE , AMANDA
Attending: KERTESZ , ALETA
Dictation ID 1715630
D: 7/15/06
T: 7/15/06