381198717 | PUO | 10920045 | | 135518 | 3/24/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/10/1995 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/16/1995
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: ATRIAL FLUTTER.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: 1. HYPERTENSION.
2. LVH.
3. HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA.
4. ASTHMA.
5. BORDERLINE DIABETES MELLITUS.
6. OBESITY.
7. GASTRITIS.
8. ALLERGIC RHINITIS.
9. DEPRESSION.
10. OSTEOARTHRITIS.
11. RIGHT KNEE EFFUSION.
12. IMPOTENCE , STATUS POST IMPLANT.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 60 year old , black male
who initially presented for an injured
knee , which occurred three days ago at work. He was noted in
triage to have a blood pressure of 210/130 and was triaged to
urgent. The patient has had a long-standing history of
hypertension and he stopped his medications actually about two
months ago when he ran out of prescriptions. Following this the
patient began to note some difficulty with dyspnea on exertion and
has also noted some altered sensations in his chest during the week
prior to admission , which lasted approximately one to two seconds
and occurred primarily at rest. These occurred across his chest
but did not radiate. The patient stated his shortness of breath
has become progressively worse. He has had no orthopnea.
Basically , over the past three weeks the patient has noted ( 1 ) his
irregular heart beat , as if he is missing beats , although he does
not note any tachycardia , ( 2 ) dyspnea on exertion , including
orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , and ( 3 ) intermittent
substernal chest pain which occurs only at rest and not with
exertion. He described this as an ache and stated it did not
radiate. The episodes lasted , at the most , four to five minutes ,
and resolved on their own without any other symptoms. He denies
any syncope or presyncope. Four years ago , as mentioned , he
slipped at work , bending his right leg , and has subsequently had
increased swelling of his right knee , foot and calf , also with some
calf pain. Today was a holiday and he had off from work , so he
came to the Emergency Ward , primarily for evaluation of his knee
and his dyspnea. At that time they found that he was in atrial
flutter.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: His past medical history includes
hypertension , LVH , asthma , increased
cholesterol , borderline diabetes mellitus , obesity , gastritis ,
allergic rhinitis , depression , osteoarthritis , chronic right knee
effusion , and impotence , status post penile implant.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: His medications include Procardia XL
60 mg q day , Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q
day , Mevacor 40 mg q day , Ventolin and Beconase inhalers , Seldane
p.r.n. , Zantac 150 mg b.i.d. , Elavil 25 mg h.s. , and Paxil 20 mg q
day. He has not taken these in the past two months.
SOCIAL HISTORY: He is married and lives with his wife. He is a
bulldozer operator. He does not smoke , drink or
use any drugs.
FAMILY HISTORY: His family history is negative for coronary artery
disease.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: His physical examination showed a black
male in no acute distress. His pressure at
the time of admission examination was 170/100. His heart rate was
in the 50 to 80 range. Respirations were 16. Temperature was
98.7. He was satting 98 percent on room air. Heent was benign.
Neck was supple without lymphadenopathy. The lungs had some
bibasilar crackles and slight wheezes on the left. The heart was
irregularly irregular with an S1 , S2 and S4. There were no
murmurs. The abdomen had normal bowel sounds and was soft , mildly
obese and non-tender. There was no hepatosplenomegaly. Rectal was
heme negative per Emergency Ward. Extremities showed 1+ right
edema and some trace , left sided , lower extremity edema. Right
knee was very swollen and he had right calf tenderness but no cord.
On neurological examination he was alert and oriented times three.
Examination was non-focal.
LABORATORY DATA: Labs showed a sodium of 142 , potassium 4.4 ,
chloride of 102 , bicarbonate of 26 , BUN 14 ,
creatinine 1.1 , and blood glucose was 122. Magnesium was 1.6. CK
was 385 and MB was 2.9. White cell count was 7.8 , hematocrit 43.7 ,
and platelets were 234 , 000. His PT was 12.7 , PTT 24.4. Chest
x-ray showed increased cardiac silhouette , PVR , and there were no
infiltrates. The knee film showed a large effusion , which was
present in the past , and some osteoarthritis but no sign of
fracture. The patient had lower extremity non invasives which were
negative and a VQ scan which was read as between low and
intermediate probability.
ASSESSMENT: This is a 60 year old man with long-standing
hypertension , now off medications for two months. He
presented with new atrial fibrillation , mild congestive heart
failure and intermittent atypical chest pain. Given symptoms were
predated by a leg injury , his lower extremity non invasives were
negative and VQ scan was low to intermediate probability , the
possibility of pulmonary embolism was not further pursued. Likely
mechanism is poorly controlled hypertension and conduction system
disease causing atrial flutter and congestive heart failure. His
low rate is worrisome for intrinsic conduction disease and it was
considered that there was no need for anticoagulation for atrial
flutter.
HOSPITAL COURSE: As noted , the patient had lower extremity non
invasives and VQ scans which were essentially
negative and he was not treated for pulmonary embolism , as it was
considered to be ruled out. He had an echocardiogram during his
admission which showed 50 percent ejection fraction with inferior
hypokinesis and left atrial size of 4 cm. The patient remained in
atrial flutter during his admission and was coumadinized for the
concern he may be slipping from atrial flutter to atrial
fibrillation occasionally. He was also started on Digoxin. The
patient remained stable and did well. He ruled out for myocardial
infarction. He was then discharged for follow up with Dr.
Rothery for his general medical concerns and will have an
appointment with Dr. Overstrom for cardioversion and an exercise
tolerance test. The patient's Dig levels and PT will be checked as
an outpatient by the VNA services and these will also be called to
Dr. Rothery . The patient's admission was without complication.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: The patient's discharge medications
and dosing were Ventolin two puffs
q.i.d. p.r.n. shortness of breath , Ecasa 325 mg p.o. q day , Digoxin
0.25 mg p.o. q day , Prozac 20 mg p.o. q day , Lisinopril 30 mg p.o.
q day , Mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , naproxen 325 mg p.o. b.i.d.
p.r.n. pain , Procardia XL 90 mg p.o. q day , Azmacort six puffs
b.i.d. , Axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Serevent two puffs inhaler b.i.d. ,
Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.h.s.
DISPOSITION: CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient's condition on
discharge was stable. Disposition was to home with
services. DISABILITY: Estimated disability was mild.
Dictated By: CAITLIN L. RADEMAN , M.D. XF50
Attending: QUEEN LINSEY ROTHERY , M.D. YD77  UY619/1596
Batch: 44937 Index No. N7SHO2688Y D: 10/22/95
T: 10/8/95
CC: 1. QUEEN ROTHERY , M.D. NY84
LAQUITA TAMIKO OVERSTROM , M.D. NF54