040983013 | PUO | 21723084 | | 1256885 | 8/9/2006 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/10/2006 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 4/6/2006
ATTENDING: STUKOWSKI , JANAY MD
SERVICE:
Cardiac Surgery Service.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS:
1. Coronary artery disease.
2. Status post RCA stent placement ( 10/24/05 )
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:
1. Hypertension.
2. Dyslipidemia.
3. Obesity.
4. Status post left knee arthroscopy ( 1999 ).
5. Status post left TKR ( 1999 ).
6. Status post right ankle fracture and pinning ( 20 years ago ).
7. History left extremity DVT ( 1999 ).
8. Status post radical prostatectomy ( 1995 ).
9. 25-pack-year cigarette smoking history.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Mr. Mardirossian is a 65-year-old male with past medical history
as above , admitted to Akcare Hospital with chest pain in 10/5
and subsequently diagnosed with acute inferior ST elevation MI
with Q waves in leads II , III and AVF. Cardiac catheterization
was done at Ranor Healthcare on 10/24/05 with RCA stented at
that time for 85% occlusion. Cardiac catheterization also
demonstrated 70% proximal occlusion of the LAD and proximal
circumflex with 85% distal circumflex lesion. Ventriculogram
estimated ejection fraction to be 60%. He now presents to Pagham University Of for elective surgical correction of his
coronary artery disease. In the interim , he denies continued
chest pain , shortness of breath , palpitations , nausea , vomiting ,
diaphoresis or syncope.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
As above.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
As above.
FAMILY HISTORY:
Positive for CAD. One brother with prior CABG , one brother with
myocardial infarction history.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
A 25-pack-year cigarette smoking history. Runs a paper company ,
currently employed full-time.
ALLERGIES:
No known drug allergies.
PREOPERATIVE HOME MEDICATIONS:
Include the following: Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lisinopril
20 mg p.o. daily , isosorbide 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg ,
Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , atorvastatin 80 mg p.o. daily ,
multivitamin daily.
PREOPERATIVE LABORATORY DATA:
Obtained on 10/14/06 , sodium 141 , potassium 4 , BUN 20 , creatinine
0.8 , glucose 87 , magnesium 2 , white blood cell count 7.2 ,
hematocrit 39.3 , platelet count 311 , 000 , INR 1.1 , and PTT 27.6.
PROCEDURE:
Mr. Mardirossian was admitted to the Pagham University Of
on 2/18/06 and on the same day underwent elective coronary
artery bypass graft x3 with LIMA to LAD and SVG1 to ramus to OM1
( sequential graft ).
BYPASS TIME:
58 minutes.
CROSSCLAMP TIME:
50 minutes.
INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS:
Included good LV contractility , good quality conduit and targets.
Please refer to operative note for details.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
Mr. Mardirossian was transferred to the Cardiac Surgery Intensive
Care Unit in the immediate postoperative period , hemodynamically
stable , intubated and sedated on Precedex. Following weaning
of sedation , the patient was found to neurologically stable ,
moving all four extremities well. He remained in normal sinus
rhythm throughout the perioperative period with stable blood
pressure and tolerated well initiation of low-dose beta-blocker
in the form of Lopressor. He was extubated in the evening of
surgery without difficulty and subsequently weaned to
supplemental oxygen by nasal cannula without difficulty.
Following extubation , diet was advanced as tolerated with the
patient administered GI prophylaxis in the form of Nexium p.o.
daily. Creatinine remained stable at baseline level of 0.7
perioperatively with the patient tolerating well low-dose
diuretic in the form of Lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. Perioperative
hyperglycemia was managed by the Diabetes Management Services ,
with the patient requiring Portland Protocol IV insulin infusion
postoperatively for glucose management with goal of glucose value
less than 125. Following advancement of diet , NovoLog sliding
scale was administered with meals. The patient remained afebrile
throughout the perioperative course with white blood cell count
stable at 8 to 9. Routine perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis
was administered in the form of vancomycin IV x2 doses. Mild
postoperative anemia required no transfusion of blood , with the
patient's hematocrit having improved to 27.9 by day of discharge
on Niferex p.o. b.i.d. White count remained stable with INR and
PTT stable at preoperative levels. Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily was
resumed in the postoperative course for preoperative RCA
stenting. Additionally , the patient was begun on enteric-coated
aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily without difficulty. Mr. Mardirossian
followed a routine postoperative course with his temporary
epicardial pacing wires and chest tubes discontinued on
postoperative day #2. The patient subsequently continued to
increase his activity level , ambulating around the Olk
with nursing assistance on room air. He was transferred to the
Cardiac Surgery Step-Down Unit on postoperative day #3 in normal
sinus rhythm , tolerating well low-dose beta-blocker , diuretic ,
Plavix , and aspirin. While in the step-down unit , he continued
to increase his activity , now ambulating ad lib on room air , in
normal sinus rhythm with stable blood pressure on Lopressor 50 mg
p.o. q.i.d. and diuresing well on Lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. Mr.
Mardirossian is discharged home in the morning of postoperative day
#5 , hemodynamically stable with normal creatinine and stable
hematocrit.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DAY OF DISCHARGE:
The patient is an obese male , alert and oriented x3 in no acute
distress. Vital signs are as follows: Temperature 97.8 degrees
Fahrenheit , heart rate 72 sinus rhythm , blood pressure 110/64 ,
and oxygen saturation 99% on room air. Today's weight listed as
2.3 kilograms above his preoperative weight of 131 kilograms.
HEENT: PERRL. No carotid bruits or JVD appreciated. Pulmonary:
Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally. Coronary: Regular
rate and rhythm , normal S1 and S2 , no murmurs or gallops
appreciated. Abdomen: Obese , soft , nontender , nondistended ,
positive bowel sounds. Extremities: Trace edema at bilateral
lower extremities to mid calves , 2+ pulses at all extremities
bilaterally. Skin: Midline sternotomy incision well approximated
and healing well with no erythema or drainage present , no sternal
click elicited on examination. Right lower extremity endoscopic
SVG harvest site incision well-approximated and healing well with
no erythema or drainage present. Mild ecchymosis present at right
thigh , soft , nontender. Neuro: intact , nonfocal examination.
LABORATORY DATA ON DISCHARGE:
On 10/6/06 , sodium 137 , potassium 4.2 , BUN 19 , creatinine 0.7 ,
glucose 98 , calcium 8.9 , magnesium 1.9 , white blood count 9.2 ,
hematocrit 27.9 , platelet count 237 , 000 , INR 1.1 , and PTT 29.2.
Microbiology negative for VRE and MRSA on routine surveillance
screen on 2/18/06 . Pathology: no specimens received
DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING:
Chest x-ray PA and lateral view obtained on 7/21/06 demonstrated
stable cardiomegaly with subsegmental atelectasis of the left
lower lobe , small bilateral pleural effusions , mild bilateral
pulmonary edema , no areas of pneumothorax or consolidation
present.
DISPOSITION:
Mr. Mardirossian is discharged home on postoperative day #5
following elective coronary artery bypass graft procedure. He
has recovered very well following his revascularization and is
expected to continue to make excellent recovery following
discharge with continued close follow up by his primary care
physician and cardiologist. Mr. Mardirossian has been advised
to call to schedule follow-up appointment with his cardiac
surgeon , Dr. Janay Stukowski , in six to eight weeks. Additionally ,
he will follow up with his primary care physician , Dr. Coppler ,
in one to two weeks and with his cardiologist , Dr. Squibb , in
two to four weeks. He will follow up with his primary care
physician for continued evaluation and management of
hypertension , dyslipidemia , osteoarthritis and for continued
support regarding weight loss. Plavix is to continue for no less
than six months postoperatively for RCA stent placed 10/24/05 and
for bypass graft protection. He has been advised to follow up with
his cardiologist for continued evaluation and management of blood
pressure , heart rate , heart rhythm , lipid levels , and for possible
future adjustment of medications. Mr. Mardirossian has been advised
to continue to monitor his incisions for signs of infection and to
take all medications as directed.
DISCHARGE CONDITION:
Stable.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Include the following: Acetaminophen 325 mg to 650 mg p.o. q.6
h. p.r.n. pain or temperature greater than 101 degrees
Fahrenheit , enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , Colace 100
mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily x7
days , ibuprofen 400 mg to 800 mg p.o. q.8 h. p.r.n. pain , Niferex
150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , multivitamin with minerals one tablet p.o.
daily , Toprol-XL 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , K-Dur 10 mEq p.o. daily x7
days , Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily for preoperative stent of RCA to
continue until otherwise directed by cardiologist ( to continue
for no less than six months following stent placement ) , and
atorvastatin 80 mg p.o. daily.
Mr. Mardirossian has recovered very well following his coronary
revascularization. He is anticipated to continue to make full
recovery to his preoperative independent level of functioning.
Thank you for referring this patient to our service. Please do
not hesitate to call with questions or concerns.
eScription document: 8-9658638 EMSSten Tel
CC: Gaylene Faniel M.D.
A Ro
CC: Vernon Randklev M.D.
Bea Duna Medical Center
Ey T Ing
Dictated By: SURGEON , PRICILLA
Attending: STUKOWSKI , JANAY
Dictation ID 5069892
D: 4/5/06
T: 4/5/06