270751876 | PUO | 52092119 | | 3920159 | 10/8/2006 12:00:00 AM | SHORTNESS OF BREATH | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/24/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/21/2006
ATTENDING: DELMENDO , CRISTINE M.D.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
The patient was admitted for a chief complaint of abdominal pain.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 70-year-old female with a history of CHF , nonischemic
hypertension , diverticulosis , complaining of two days of
pressure-like abdominal pain starting suddenly on the morning of
1/1/06 . She had nausea , gas , with no vomiting , pain through
entire abdomen , new diarrhea felt like water in her belly ,
complained of tachypnea with bowel movements , no bright red blood
per rectum. She had occasional dark stools , none on the day of
admission. She was currently getting better. Subjective fevers
at home. She had bowel movement daily. She has a history of
constipation with no bowel movement on day of admission. She had
no dysuria. She also has complained of a cough for two days and
she had blood-tinged sputum. She had ECG in the past.
Significantly her aunt died of tuberculosis 15 years ago. She
had right breast pain with cough. She had no pleuritic pain. No
night sweats. She has baseline three-pillow orthopnea. She had
no weight
gain over the last week and she had increased leg pain. She is
compliant with her medications and she complains of anxiety since
being sick. She eats daily. She has had no vaginal bleeding.
No dysphagia.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for CHF. She had a echo in 9/19 , which showed an EF
of 50%-55%. She has severe tricuspid regurgitation. She has
LVH. She had a catheterization in 2001 that showed no evidence
of coronary artery disease. She has atrial fibrillation that is
rate controlled and she has hypertension , history of hypothyroid
secondary to amiodarone. She is obese. She is status post
bilateral knee replacements at the Greene Lidonimill Medical Center
in 1993 and 1994. This was done for osteoarthritis. She has a
history of anxiety , PVD , diverticulosis status post partial
colectomy in 1997 also done at the Greene Lidonimill Medical Center .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Significant for bilateral total knee replacements and the colon
resections.
ALLERGIES:
She is allergic to no known drugs.
MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
Xanax 1.5 mg q.a.m. , Zoloft 50 mg q.a.m. , Coumadin 2 mg q.p.m. ,
Cozaar 15 mg daily , atenolol 40 mg daily , Lasix 40 mg daily ,
Protonix 20 mg daily , and Percocet p.r.n. for pain.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
She lives alone divorced. She smoked for 20 years ago and quit
20 years ago. She does not use illicit drugs.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Upon admission here , physical exam was significant for that she
was afebrile , pulse was 93 , blood pressure of 111/77 , respiratory
rate of 16 , she was satting well on 4 L nasal cannula started at
96% with 2 L nasal cannula. In general , she was anxious ,
tearful , obese , and does not look ill. HEENT: She was PERRL.
Her OP was clear. She had no thyroid enlargement. Her JVP was
11 cm , although it was difficult to assess. With regard to her
cardiovascular status , she was tacky. She had regular rate.
There was no S3-S4 appreciated. She had normal S1-S2 and there
were no murmurs appreciated. Her chest exam was significant for
diffuse wheezing on both inspiratory and expiratory movements.
She had no rales or rhonchi. Her abdominal exam was significant
for very obese midline scar. She is diffusely mildly tender with
no peritoneal signs. No palpable abdominal aorta. She had no
bruits. Extremities: She has positive venostasis signs and no
traces of edema. Neurological exam: She is alert and oriented
x3 and cranial nerves II through XII were grossly intact. Her
stool is guaiac negative in the emergency room.
Her EKG was significant for multiple beats of ectopy and on
telemetry she was found to be in atrial fibrillation with the
rate in 80s to 90s with multiple runs of five to six beats of V
tach and quite a bit of ectopy. This has been described at
multiple previous visits while in the hospital by systems.
Assessment was that this is a 70-year-old female with no
nonischemic CHF presenting with diffuse symptoms including cough ,
shortness of breath , abdominal pain , and anxiety. Her exam was
consistent with volume overload and possibly cardiac asthma. No
history of COPD or history of asthma or patient frequent
wheezing. Trigger for exacerbation could be bronchitis versus
abdominal process.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
With regard to her cardiovascular status , pump , she was volume
overloaded per the physical exam. She was diuresed to her dry
weight. With regards to her rhythm , she was rate controlled with
beta-blocker now well controlled. No evidence of current
ischemia , cardiac enzymes were negative. Pulmonary status: She
has stacked nebs with levobuterol , prednisone given in the
emergency room. She was also given a course of azithromycin.
Her sputum and Gram stain culture was negative. With regard to
her abdominal complaints: Her belly pain was of unclear
etiology. She had a negative abdominal CT question constipation.
No evidence of AAA on abdominal CT. Bowel moves regular. She
was provided with a PPI inhouse. All stools were negative for
old blood. With regard to her psychiatric condition , she has
anxiety. This was treated with Zantac and p.r.n. Ativan.
Musculoskeletal system: She was tender in muscles likely related
from obesity. With regard to infectious disease status , she had
a negative chest CT. Her cough is productive of blood , tinged
sputum secondary to chronic cough and elevated INR. Gram
staining culture were negative. A course of azithromycin was
completed. She was also started on prednisone to help with her
wheezing. She was transitioned back from her diuretic Lasix dose
to her usual home dose of Lasix and her beta-blocker was changed
to a long-acting. Coumadin dose was adjusted to maintain her INR
at therapeutic range and she is being discharged to rehab as
physical therapist evaluation felt that she is very unsteady on
her feet.
There were no complications of this hospital admission. The
patient did well , is improving , she will be discharged on a
prednisone taper and nebulization. Her bowel regimen was
discontinued because she was having a little bit of diarrhea.
She should follow up with her primary care physician and
cardiologist within two weeks of discharge from rehabilitation.
There will be an addendum to this discharge summary with final
follow up and medication list.
eScription document: 3-1920700 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: DELAGLIO , CHRISTIANA
Attending: DELMENDO , CRISTINE
Dictation ID 5077481
D: 1/21/06
T: 1/21/06