437039023 | PUO | 87891930 | | 1925805 | 10/21/2005 12:00:00 AM | HYPOKALEMIA | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 10/21/2005 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 6/18/2005
ATTENDING: GUMINA , MARJORY SHELA MD
ADMISSION DIAGNOSES:
1. Weakness.
2. Congestive heart failure.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Bacteremia.
2. Giant cell arteritis.
3. Congestive heart failure.
CONSULTS: Neurology on 9/23/05 .
PROCEDURE: Attempted lumbar puncture on 9/23/05
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 81-year-old male
with history of diabetes mellitus , hypertension , atrial
fibrillation , giant cell arteritis , and congestive heart failure
with preserved systolic function , who presents with generalized
weakness. On the day of admission , the patient's children and
VNA were unable to get in touch with him and came to his house ,
where he was sitting too weak to answer the door. At that time ,
he was apparently confused and disoriented. The patient reports
feeling poorly for about two years since his diagnosis with giant
cell arteritis , but denied any acute change over the past several
days prior to admission. He denied focal weakness , slurred
speech , bowel or bladder incontinence , loss of consciousness and
had no witnessed seizure activity. He also denied chest pain , palpitations ,
shortness of breath , increased dyspnea on exertion , orthopnea ,
and also had no report of fever , cough , dysuria , urinary
frequency , diarrhea , abdominal pain , jaw claudication , calf
tenderness , or vision loss. He did think that he had recently
lost weight and has chronic lower extremity edema and chronic
right shoulder pain. In the ED , he was afebrile with pulse of
78 , blood pressure 124/60 , and breathing 16 times per minute.
His potassium was noted to be low. Chest x-ray showed pulmonary
edema and head CT was negative. He received potassium and
magnesium repletion as well as oxycodone for right shoulder pain
and was admitted for weakness in the setting of hypokalemia and
volume overload.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Congestive heart failure with preserved
systolic function , chronic lower extremity edema , diabetes
mellitus type 2 , history of atrial fibrillation s/p DC cardioversion ,
hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , giant cell arteritis , chronic renal
insufficiency , history of spinal stenosis , gout , depression , and
status post recent left thigh ulcer excision.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. daily , Zocor 20 mg
p.o. daily , atenolol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
lisinopril 40 mg p.o. daily , Medrol 10 mg daily , glyburide 10 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , potassium chloride 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , and
multivitamin 1 tab p.o. daily.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone with a cat. His son
visits him daily. He denies tobacco use but reports alcohol use
of one drink a day.
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vitals - afebrile , pulse 74 ,
blood pressure 105/51 , respirations 18 , and sats 92% on room air.
GEN - NAD , pleasant elderly gentleman. HEENT - MMM , oropharynx
was clear. Neck - JVP is 12 cm. PULM - poor inspiratory effort
on exam , left side mostly clear with decreased breath sounds and
rales at the right base. CV - regular rate with early beats and
no murmurs , gallops , or rubs appreciated. ABD - soft , nontender ,
and nondistended with positive bowel sounds. EXT - 1+ pitting
edema to knees , faint distal pulses , left thigh sutures with mild
surrounding erythema. Neuro - cranial nerves II through XII
grossly intact , motor strength is 5/5 throughout except the right
deltoid , which is limited by pain and hip flexors , which were 4/5
bilaterally.
ADMISSION EKG: Normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 78 , T wave
inversions in aVL , which were old.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. ID - The patient developed hypotension on the morning of
9/23/05 . He was given IV fluids , stress dose steroids , and
started on broader antibiotic coverage ( vancomycin and
levofloxacin ). He was also started on acyclovir with concern for
encephalopathy in the setting of increased lethargy and
right-sided deficits reported earlier that morning. He responded
to IV fluids and did not require pressor support. A lumbar
puncture was attempted and was unsuccessful. His blood cultures
from 9/23/05 in the a.m. grew gram-negative rods and antibiotics
which were changed to ceftriaxone and levofloxacin for double
gram-negative coverage. The other cultures grew one out of four
pansensitive pseudomonas and one out of four Bacteroides fragilis
and his antibiotics were changed to ceftazidime , levofloxacin ,
and Flagyl. The acyclovir was stopped. Blood cultures were
repeated on the evening of 9/23/05 and were negative. He was
discharged home with a PICC line to complete a 14-day course of
antibiotics. At the time of discharge , the patient was afebrile
and vital signs were stable. His white blood cell count was
elevated likely secondary to steroids. The source of his
bacteremia was unclear , but most likely a bowel origin given its
species and would consider microperforation as the possibility.
A follow-up colonoscopy may be considered as an outpatient.
Other sources include sinusitis and recent removal of a left leg
ulcer , but were unlikely to result in pseudomonas and
Bacteroides.
2. Neuro - The patient presented with generalized nonfocal
weakness. On the morning of 9/23/05 , he developed focal
right-sided weakness , aphasia , and lethargy/confusion. Stat head
CT/CTA and neuro consult were done and the patient was started on
acyclovir for concern of CNS infection. Lumbar puncture was
attempted but was unsuccessful. CTA was negative for acute stroke
and MRI/MRA was also done and was negative. The patient's
right-sided deficits were transient and the patient's mental
status also improved during the rest of his hospitalization. The
cause of his acute symptoms were unclear , but included giant cell
arteritis exacerbation , recrudescence of previous stroke ,
transient hypotension from sepsis and TIA. Interestingly , on
review of his chart , it was also found that the initial ED
nursing note per EMS reported right-sided weakness , which must
have been transient as well because the ED physician note was
without focality.
3. CV/Pulm - ( I ) The patient denied chest pain and troponin was
negative x 2. He was continued on aspirin and statin and
restarted on beta-blocker when his blood pressures improved.
( P ) - The patient has a history of diastolic congestive heart
failure and was admitted with mild pulmonary edema on chest
x-ray. He was initially given Lasix , but was discontinued on the
morning 9/23/05 in the setting of hypertension. He also
complained of shortness of breath at that time , but chest x-ray
was repeated , which showed clear lungs. His sats were 94 to 95%
on two to three liters of oxygen. He required aggressive fluid
resuscitation for his hypotension , which he tolerated well. He
again became short of breath on the morning of 2/27/05 and was
thought to be mildly volume overloaded. He was given IV Lasix and
restarted on daily p.o. Lasix. He was discharged on 40 mg p.o.
b.i.d. Lasix.
( R ) - The patient has a history of atrial fibrillation and status
post DC cardioversion. He presented in sinus rhythm. He did
require IV Lopressor and verapamil for rapid rate atrial flutter
on 5/25/05 to 2/27/05 , which was somewhat refractory to
treatment. However , his rate quickly improved on placement of a
Foley in the setting of difficulty voiding and a large bladder
residual. At the time of discharge , he was restarted on his home
dose of atenolol.
4. Renal - The patient presented with chronic renal
insufficiency , which remained stable during his hospitalization.
His creatinine ranged from 1.5 to 1.9. The patient's Foley
catheter was removed on 5/25/05 and the patient began to
complain of urinary frequency and urgency on 2/27/05 .
Urinalysis and urine culture were negative. However , postvoid
residual was one liter and his Foley was replaced. On discharge ,
he was given a trial to void , which was not completed. It was
recommended that the patient be discharged with a Foley , but was
declined. The patient and his family were informed of our recommendation. He
has VNA services scheduled who are aware
of his urinary difficulty and should check postvoid residual and replace the
Foley or teach straight cath as needed.
5. Heme - The patient has a history of atrial fibrillation and
was previously on Coumadin anticoagulation. However , his
Coumadin was stopped several days prior to admission for left leg
ulcer excision and presented subtherapeutic with an INR of 1.2.
His Coumadin was held during his stay in the MICU , but was
restarted prior to discharge. He will be followed by MMC
Anticoagulation and should be closely monitored in the setting of
antibiotics. On discharge , his INR was 1.6.
6. Derm - The patient had a left leg ulcer excision several days
prior to admission. The patient should have sutures removed
after discharge at two weeks post excision. The site was an
unlikely source of his bacteremia.
7. Rheum/Endocrine- The patient has a history of giant cell
arteritis. ESR was elevated to 99 on admission. The patient was
initially continued on home dose Medrol. However , on the morning
of 9/23/05 , in the setting of right-sided weakness , mental
status change , and hypotension , the patient was changed to
high-dose Solu-Medrol with concern for his GCA
exacerbation/vasculitis. When the cultures grew preliminary
gram-negative rods and MRI of the brain was negative for
vasculitis , he was changed to stress dose hydrocortisone.
Steroids were tapered during hospitalization and the patient was
discharged on a continued taper back over one week to his home dose Medrol 10
mg per day. The patient was also on glyburide as an outpatient
for diabetes mellitus. As an inpatient , he was given insulin for
more aggressive control. On discharge , the patient was to
continue on twice per day insulin 70/30 while recovering and
tapering steroids. As an outpatient , it may be considered to
resume his oral agents in place of insulin.
8. Access- The patient had a right internal jugular central
venous line placed in the MICU , which was discontinued prior to
discharge. A PICC line was placed for home antibiotics.
9. FEN- The patient presented with hypokalemia to 2.9 and required
multiple doses of repletion. At the time of discharge , his
potassium was 3.1 and received additional potassium on that day.
He was discharged on a regimen of 40 mEq of potassium chloride
per day. He will need his potassium to be rechecked as an
outpatient in the setting of receiving daily Lasix. However ,
there was concern for more aggressive outpatient repletion in the
setting of chronic renal insufficiency.
10. Prophylaxis- The patient was given Nexium and Lovenox.
RADIOLOGICAL STUDIES:
1. CT head on 2/7/05 - no acute intracranial abnormality ,
bilateral maxillary and ethmoid sinus mucosal thickening.
2. Portable chest x-ray on 2/7/05 - mild pulmonary edema.
3. PA and lateral chest x-ray on 2/7/05 - stable with mild
cardiomegaly , no acute pulmonary process.
4. CTA head , 9/23/05 - paraventricular white matter changes
consistent with small vessel ischemia; mild-to-moderate atrophy
with compensatory ventricular megaly , mild- to-moderate proximal
right internal carotid artery stenosis with calcification and
atheroma; calcifications of the bilateral segments at the
internal carotid arteries as well as the bifurcation of the
proximal left internal carotid artery with no appreciable
stenosis and calcification and mild narrowing of the origin of
the right vertebral artery; complete opacification of bilateral
maxillary sinus , mucosal thickening of the bilateral ethmoid and
sphenoid sinuses; degenerative changes at the cervical spine.
5. Portable chest x-ray , 9/23/05 - no change in cardiac
silhouette or pulmonary parenchyma from 2/7/05 .
6. Portable chest x-ray , 9/23/05 - improved aeration of the
right lung base allowing visualization of the right
hemidiaphragm; placement of right jugular central venous catheter
with tip in the SVC; no pneumothorax.
7. MR of the brain with and without contrast , 9/23/05 - no
evidence of acute infarction , no intracranial collections of mass
lesions; mild involutional changes present.
8. Portable chest x-ray , 7/5/05 , bibasilar opacities due at
least in part to atelectasis; right jugular central venous
catheter was stable in position; no evidence for substantial
pleural effusion or pneumothorax.
CARDIOLOGY STUDIES: Echocardiogram on 7/5/05 - normal LV size ,
EF 55% to 60% , no wall motion abnormalities; normal RV; atrial
size normal; trace to mild MR; mild TR , PAP 38.
MICROBIOLOGICAL STUDY:
1. Blood cultures , 9/23/05 admission - one out of four
Bacteroides fragilis , one out of four pansensitive Pseudomonas
aeruginosa.
2. Blood cultures , 9/23/05 , in the evening - no growth.
3. Urine culture , 9/23/05 - no growth.
4. Urine culture , 2/27/05 - negative with total colony count of
1000 yeast.
5. VRE and MRSA screen on 9/23/05 - negative.
6. C. diff screen on 2/27/05 - negative.
DISPOSITION: The patient is to be discharged on 9/19/05 in
stable condition to home with services.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. headache.
2. Enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.
3. Atenolol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
4. Ceftazidime 1000 mg IV q.24h. with the last dose on 3/23/05 .
5. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6. Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
7. Medrol taper 12 mg every 12 hours x4 doses , then 10 mg every
12 hours x4 days , then 8 mg every 12 hours x4 doses , then 6 mg
every 12 hours x4 doses , and then continue methylprednisolone
p.o. at 10 mg q.24h. indefinitely.
8. Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.
9. Coumadin 1.25 mg p.o. q.p.m.
10. Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.
11. Insulin 70/30 , 20 units subcu q.a.m. and 12 units subcu
q.p.m.
12. Levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. daily to end on 3/23/05 .
13. Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. daily.
14. Insulin sliding scale , subcu b.i.d. only at breakfast and
dinner.
15. Potassium chloride 40 mEq p.o. daily.
TO DO/PLAN:
1. Medication changes: holding lisinopril and glyburide; reducing
Lasix from 80 mg twice per day to 40 mg twice per day; Coumadin
dose halved on antibiotics ( MMC Anticoagulation may adjust this
based on lab values ); steroid taper over the week following
discharge to his original dose; last dose of antibiotics on
3/23/05 , the PICC line can be removed when his course of
ceftazidime is complete.
2. The patient is on insulin two times per day while recovering.
Possibility to return to glyburide should be discussed with his
PCP once steroid taper and antibiotics completed.
3. It was recommended that the patient be discharged with the
Foley catheter given his difficulty voiding , however , he
declined. His ability to void should be assessed by the VNA
Services and the patient should be straight cathed as necessary.
4. The patient should record daily weights and keep a
glucose log , which should be presented at his PCP follow-up.
5. The patient should follow up with his PCP within one week and
have lytes checked at that time.
6. The VNA Services should check a Chem-7 on Sunday following
discharge. INR is to be followed by MMC Anticoagulation Clinic
at 831-963-5333.
eScription document: 6-1059921 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: WATERHOUSE , IGNACIA
Attending: GUMINA , MARJORY SHELA
Dictation ID 8189505
D: 5/29/05
T: 5/29/05