009560203 | PUO | 78023769 | | 1042030 | 10/14/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/22/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: POPOVIC , ALEXANDRA MD
SERVICE: Cardiology.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: Pulmonary edema , hypertensive urgency ,
non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction , status post
catheterization.
LIST OF PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES:
1. Hypertension since at least 1995.
2. Diabetes.
3. Hyperlipidemia.
4. Obstructive sleep apnea , on CPAP.
5. Status post cerebrovascular accident.
6. Pneumonia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient , Mr. Raver is a
44-year-old married Hispanic male with a history of diabetes;
hypertension; hypercholesterolemia; and obstructive sleep apnea ,
on CPAP , who presented to the P Therford Hospital Emergency Room on November ,
2005 , with complaint of shortness of breath. His wife reported
that he has been experiencing gradually worsening shortness of
breath since the afternoon of October , 2005 , without any chest
pain. He has increased dyspnea on exertion , needing to use a
CPAP at night. He was found to be hypertensive to the 200/100 ,
with florid pulmonary edema and hypertensive encephalopathy. The
patient was then intubated for airway protection and oxygenation
and admitted to the P Therford Hospital ICU where he was diuresed
aggressively. The patient's hypertension was difficult to
control , requiring labetalol initially and then a successful
regimen of IV nitroglycerin , nitroprusside , hydralazine , and
Lopressor. The patient received a TEE on November , 2005 , which
showed concentric LVH , no wall motion abnormalities , and EF of
45%. There was a concern for aortic dissection on
echocardiogram , but an MRI/MRA revealed no dissection. The
patient was also frequently agitated requiring increasing doses
of Versed and fentanyl as well as p.r.n. Haldol and Zyprexa.
During the admission to P Therford Hospital , he had lateral ST segment
depressions on multiple EKGs and a non-ST-elevation MI ( NSTEMI )
with a peak troponin of 20 on November , 2005 , a peak CK of 430 ,
and a peak MB of 20. He was started on ASA , heparin ,
beta-blocker , statin , and Integrilin and transferred to the TTHC
on March , 2005 , for management for possible catheterization.
At the P Therford Hospital ICU , the patient also had marked hyperglycemia
and was put on a ??___?? protocol.
At the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of CCU , he was found to have a cardiac enzyme leak
with a peak CK of 286 , CK-MB of 6.2 , and troponin of 13.8 , which
trended down. His EKG showed signs of evolving anterior MI. The
patient was continued to be maintained on aspirin , Plavix , and
Lipitor while Integrilin was discontinued on CCU day #2 as the
patient was not stable for cardiac catheterization. His blood
pressure continued to be very difficult to control. The patient
came in from the TTHC with a nitroglycerin drip , which was weaned
and transitioned to Norvasc 5 mg q.d. , captopril 25 t.i.d. ,
Lopressor 100 q.i.d. , and hydralazine 50 q.i.d. However , his
blood pressure continued to rise ??___?? on CCU day #4 and
Nipride drip was initiated. This increase was in the setting of
confusion ??___??. His Nipride was weaned on day #5 and his p.o.
blood pressure medications were restarted with systolic blood
pressure goal of 140. The patient also had an episode of sinus
pause of greater than 2.5 seconds on September , 2005 , with no
symptoms. IV labetalol was discontinued after that episode.
CCU course was complicated by the patient spiking a fever to
104.1 on CCU day #3 , and he was started on broad spectrum
antibiotics for presumptive ICU pneumonia. He was started on
vancomycin , ceftazidime , and levofloxacin was added. The CCU
course was also complicated by the patient developing left-sided
weakness in the left lower extremity on ICU day #5 , which was
concerning for CVA. An MRI/MRA was obtained which showed small
vessel disease consistent with hypertension-induced
cerebrovascular accident and no evidence of embolism. An
echocardiogram was obtained and was negative for any cardiac
sources and emboli and with a negative bubble study. Secondary
to the patient's mental status and question of inability to
swallow , an NG tube was placed; however , it was self-discontinued
by the patient on September , 2005. The patient was transferred to
the cardiology team on January , 2005 , for further medical
management prior to cardiac catheterization for the
non-ST-elevation MI.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative for chest pain , shortness of breath ,
dyspnea on exertion , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , fevers ,
chills , and dysuria.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hypertension. Difficult to control on multiple regimen and
follow at LMHO .
2. Diabetes , also very difficult to control. His last
hemoglobin A1c was 11.4 on August , 2005.
3. Obstructive sleep apnea , on CPAP.
4. Hypercholesterolemia.
5. Status post cerebrovascular accident secondary to
hypertension.
6. Status post ICU pneumonia.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS:
1. Home Medications: Metformin 1 g b.i.d.; Actos 30 q.d.;
TriCor 145 q.d.; Aceon 8 mg q.d.; acetabutolol 400 mg b.i.d.;
Lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Tiazac 420 q.d.; Crestor 20 q.d.; and
Catapres-2 patch.
2. Medications On Transfer: Aspirin 325 q.d.; Plavix 75 q.d.;
Lipitor 80 q.d.; Lopressor 50 t.i.d.; captopril 50 t.i.d.;
hydralazine 20 q.i.d.; famotidine 20 b.i.d.; Colace 100 b.i.d.;
senna; heparin subcutaneously 5000 units t.i.d.; vancomycin 1 g
q.12h. day #10; ceftazidime 2 g q.8h. day #7; and levofloxacin
750 q.d. day #4.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient works in shipping. He lives with
his wife and three kids. Positive history of tobacco , no
alcohol , and no IV drug use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital Signs: T-max and T-current are
100.9; blood pressure is 138 to 190/72 to 102; pulse is 62 to 79;
respiratory rate 18 to 20; and O2 saturations 96% to 98% on 2
liters. General: The patient was slightly confused and
agitated , but answers in English and remembering his anniversary.
HEENT: PERRL. Positive subconjunctival hemorrhage , right
greater than left. Pulmonary: Some mild wheezes and upper
airway breath sounds bilaterally at the base; otherwise , clear.
CV: Regular rate and rhythm. S1 and s2. Mild systolic murmur
at the left lower sternal border. Abdomen: Soft , nontender , and
nondistended. Positive bowel sounds. Obese. Extremities: No
clubbing , cyanosis , or edema; 2+ DP pulses. Neurologic: Slight
left-sided weakness , 4/5 , in the upper and lower extremities.
Deep tendon reflex 2+ and symmetric.
LABORATORY DATA: His labs are significant for sodium 142 ,
potassium 4.0 , chloride 111 , bicarbonate 27 , BUN 26 , and
creatinine 1.2. His blood sugar is 172. His white count is 8.6 ,
hematocrit 29.2 , and platelets 200.
STUDIES:
1. On March , 2005 , his EKG showed ST abnormality and possible
lateral subendocardial injury.
2. On February , 2005 , echocardiogram showed LV mildly dilated
concentric hypertrophy. Function is normal. EF was 55% with no
wall motion abnormalities.
3. MRI/MRA with multiple small vessel infarctions; one in the
left cerebellum noted in the posterior corpus callosum , multiple
in the centrum semiovale on the right hemisphere.
4. Renal ultrasound , which showed bilaterally symmetric kidneys
with no hydronephrosis.
5. EEG abnormal consistent with moderate to diffuse cerebral
dysfunction , possibly secondary to toxic metabolic
encephalopathy. No definite epileptiform abnormalities.
6. Chest x-ray showing cardiomegaly and vascular congestion.
7. All his blood cultures and urine cultures had no growth to
date.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: This is a 44-year-old male with history of
hypertension , diabetes , high cholesterol , and obstructive sleep
apnea presenting with hypertensive crisis , pulmonary edema ,
status post ICU stay complicated by multiple strokes and
left-sided weakness , non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction
likely demand ischemia secondary to hypertension and agitation ,
hyperglycemia requiring ??___?? protocol , and question of
ICU-acquired pneumonia with spiking fever needing the use of
broad spectrum antibiotics. The patient is now transferred to
the floor for further management prior to catheterization.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. CV: Ischemia: EKG showing sign of an evolving anterior MI.
The patient continued to be on aspirin , Plavix , and Lipitor. The
patient received a catheterization on August , 2005 , which shows
left oblique marginal #1 with 90% discrete lesion that was
stented to 0 with a DES stent and RCA with 80% discrete lesion
stented to 0. The patient was stable postcatheterization.
Pump: The patient's blood pressure continued to be high on the
floor. He was started on captopril 50 t.i.d. , eventually
increased to 100 t.i.d.; hydralazine 20 q.i.d. IV , eventually
switching over to 50 p.o. q.i.d. The patient was restarted on
home medication of clonidine patch as discontinuation can cause
labile hypertension. He was also started on Lasix 80 mg p.o.
b.i.d. During the catheterization , the patient was found to have
a pulmonary wedge pressure of 17 , which is elevated. He was
given IV Lasix to diurese. He diuresed very well with the p.o.
and IV dose.
Rhythm: The patient had two episodes of sinus pause greater than
3 seconds on September , 2005 , with no episodes since September ,
2005. It could be secondary to obstructive sleep apnea versus
conduction abnormality. Electrophysiology service was consulted.
The EP service encouraged the patient to wear a CPAP device
during the day. His beta-blocker was held secondary to the sinus
pause. However , after the catheterization and with the result of
obstructive lesion , the patient was restarted on low-dose
beta-blocker with atenolol 25 mg q.d.
2. Pulmonary: When transferred , the patient's sedation was
weaned and he was without any pressure on CCU day #4. He had
received Lasix for pulmonary edema. He continued to diuresed on
the floor with 80 mg p.o. of Lasix.
3. ID: The patient had spiked a fever to 104.1 on March ,
2005 , with a question of pneumonia. He was continued on his
vancomycin , ceftazidime , and levofloxacin for a 14-day course.
His vancomycin will be completed on discharge while he will need
to continue on ceftazidime and levofloxacin during
rehabilitation. The patient was MRSA negative. He continues to
have low-grade fever , but no frank fever over 100.4. The patient
continued to improve and does not complain of any subjective
fever.
4. GI: The patient received an NG tube on September , 2005 , but it
was self-discontinued. He had speech and swallow test , which he
passed and was started on the house diet. The patient received a
nutrition consult for his diabetes and was put on a cardiac and
diabetic diet. His magnesium and potassium were repleted.
5. Renal: On admission , his creatinine was 1.6 and trended down
to 1.2 and 1.1 prior to discharge. We thought that his
increasing creatinine is likely secondary from hypertensive
injury. The patient was given Mucomyst prior and after
catheterization. He tolerated the ACE inhibition with no rise in
creatinine.
6. Neurologic: On CCU day #5 , the patient developed weakness in
the left upper and lower extremity with concern for CVA.
Neurologic consult was initiated and MRI and MRA were obtained.
MRI/MRA showed small vessel disease consistent with
hypertension-induced CVA. He had a negative echocardiogram and
negative bubble study. The patient was given some physical
therapy and will likely need rehabilitation.
7. Endocrine: The patient takes Humalog 75/25 50 units before
breakfast and 20 units before dinner , NPH 20 at bedtime , and also
Actos and metformin. Here , the patient was given a NovoLog
sliding scale with 14 units of NovoLog q.a.c. and Lantus 35
q.h.s. He will be continued on these doses and will need to be
transitioned to his home medications once he goes home.
8. Prophylaxis: The patient will receive PPI and heparin for
prophylaxis.
CODE: Full.
DISPOSITION: The patient will likely need rehabilitation for his
prolonged ICU course and also for his stroke.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: The discharge medications will be
dictated as an addendum pending discharge.
eScription document: 4-9866651 SSSten Tel
CC: Sheri Unikel
Ainam Iro Hospital
Min Ral S
CC: Alexandra Popovic MD
Blodelersa Perv
CC: Kam Isa , MD , Ph.D. ,
Pande Memorial Hospital
Dictated By: STRAHL , ROSAURA
Attending: POPOVIC , ALEXANDRA
Dictation ID 8390481
D: 5/25/05
T: 5/25/05