749366744 | PUO | 03259164 | | 0201680 | 11/6/2005 12:00:00 AM | RIGHT LOWER LOBE PNEUMONIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/21/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 1/29/2005
ATTENDING: FILOMENA DONEHOO MD
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Change in mental status.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Hypercarbic respiratory failure and
aspiration pneumonia.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENTATION: The patient is a 74-year-old
woman with a past medical history significant for rectosigmoid
cancer complicated with vesicular vaginal fistula status post
total pelvic exenteration , cystectomy with ileal loop diversion
on February 2004 , obesity , hypoventilation syndrome with chronic
respiratory acidosis status post gluteal sacral abscess who was
brought to the Emergency Department from a skilled nursing
facility with change in mental status and sacral wound infection.
In the Emergency Department at 4 p.m. her vitals were noted to
be a temperature 98 , heart rate 73 , blood pressure 145/63 , and
she was breathing 90% on 4 liters nasal cannula. She was noted
to have no orientation to place and ABG showed a pH of 7.2 , PCO2
103 and a PO2 of 249. At 5:30 p.m. the patient became
diaphoretic. Blood cultures were drawn and her mental status was
worsening. She was started on 100% nonrebreather and subsequent
ABG was 7.17 , PCO2 of 109 , PO2 of 217. With Bipap initiation her
ABG improved to a pH of 7.21 , PCO2 of 87 , PO2 of 87. Then , she
was subsequently intubated , started on assist control ventilation
with an ABG of 7.37 , PCO2 of 59 , PO2 141. She was a difficult
intubation , required fiberoptic assistance. Her vitals at that
time , she had a blood pressure of 80-90/60s , that slowly returned
to 110s/60s. In the Emergency Department , a head CT , PE protocol
CT and chest abdominal CT showed right lower lobe opacification.
She had a head CT that showed no acute intracranial abnormality.
An abdominal CT showed an air fluid collection in the pelvis and
some cholelithiasis and a CT PE showed no evidence of PE though
admittedly the study was limited and there was a small bilateral
pleural effusion and right lower lobe consolidative paucity
possibly representing an early pneumonia. She was started on
Levo Flagyl and Vanc and received 1-2 liters IV fluid. In
addition , she had elevated K which was treated with insulin D5
calcium gluconate. She had an EKG which showed T wave inversions
of V2-V4 and flat T waves in V5. She was admitted to the Medical
Intensive Care Unit where she was intubated and sedated with
Versed and Fentanyl , and at that time she was hemodynamically
stable.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history is
notable locally advanced rectosigmoid cancer T4 M1 metastatic
diagnosed in 2003. It was diagnosed in the context of diarrhea
and rectal bleeding and passing stool in the vagina and bladder.
She had vesicular and vaginal fistulas at that time. She is
status post total pelvic exenteration with ileal loop diversion
in February 2004 , status post XRT in July and September 2004 , status
post gluteal sacral abscess August 2004 , status post c-dif
colitis in August 2004 , status post e. coli MSS bacteremia in
August 2004 , obesity , hypoventilation syndrome. She normally
sats in the 80s on room air. She has iron deficiency anemia ,
GERD , osteoarthritis. An echo April 2004 showed normal left
ventricular function with an EF of 60% with question of elevated
right-sided pressures , LVH and she suffered immobility secondary
to XRT with back pain and lower extremity edema , status post
total abdominal hysterectomy in August 2001 , and had a
pulmonary evaluation in February 2004 in which she was assessed to
have obesity , hypoventilation syndrome , nocturnal oxygen
desaturation , chronic respiratory acidosis complicated with
longstanding obesity hypoventilation syndrome.
MEDICATIONS: The patient takes Tylenol p.r.n. pain , vitamin C
500 b.i.d. , zinc sulfate 220 daily , iron sulfate 325 t.i.d. ,
oxycodone 5 q.4h p.r.n. pain though she does not require that
very often , Toprol XL 50 daily , Lovenox 40 subq. daily , Remeron
7.5 q.h.s. , Xalantan 7 drops OU , Seroquel 25 q.h.s. , Nexium 20
daily , Mag oxide 800 b.i.d.
ALLERGIES: Erythromycin causes GI upset , penicillin causes mouth
sores.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She has two children , she is divorced , lives at
a skilled nursing facility , prior smoker but does not drink
alcohol and no history of IV drug use.
FAMILY HISTORY: Complicated with obesity. Father died at age of
83 of colon cancer. Mother had dementia.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is a morbidly obese woman who
at the time of the document exam was intubated , vented and
sedated. She was asleep , did not open her eyes. Her neck was
supple. Chest: There were coarse breath sounds with diffuse
wheezes. Her cardiac exam was notable for an S1 , S2 , regular
rate and rhythm and the JVP was difficult to assess. Abdominal
exam was notable for a colostomy. Her abdomen was soft ,
nontender , and no bowel sounds were appreciated. Her extremities
were warm and well perfused. Neurologically , she was sedated.
Skin was not notable for any rashes or petechiae.
HOSPITAL COURSE: By system:
1. Pulmonary: The patient was in the Medical Intensive Care
Unit from the 29 of March to the 25 of May of October . She has known obesity
hypoventilation syndrome. She was weaned from assist control to
pressure support ventilation. On the 25 of May , the patient self
extubated , was put on bipap and then quickly transitioned to
nasal cannula. The patient did report needing bipap at night at
one point though later on it was felt that she was not on bipap
at night normally. She has an elevated right hemidiaphragm seen
on chest x-ray and at baseline sats 90-93% on 2 liters. On the
floor , she was seen by pulmonary consult about management of her
obesity ventilation syndrome. At the time of discharge the
patient is to sleep on bipap 10/0. Those parameters will need to
be optimized with a sleep study after discharge and , in addition ,
the patient will have to be observed at night with sats being
monitored to qualify her for bipap at night. In the hospital we
did monitor her sats overnight and she satted 85-87% on 2 liters
of nasal cannula when she was sleeping at night.
2. Infectious Disease: The patient had a right lower lobe
pneumonia treated with levofloxacin and Flagyl that was started
in the Emergency Department on November , 2005. She will
complete a 14 day course of those antibiotics. The patient was
consistently afebrile and the thought was the patient had
aspiration right lower lobe pneumonia. The patient did receive a
few doses of Vancomycin which was later discontinued. The
patient was also treated by Diflucan and Flagyl to cover BV/yeast
infection as the patient was noted to have some vaginal
discharge. The vaginal discharge ultimately had negative
cultures. The patient also had a known stage IV decubitus in her
sacral area that did not appear to be infected.
3. Cardiovascular: The patient was volume overloaded after
receiving significant fluids when she first presented. She had a
left pleural effusion on subsequent chest x-rays. She was
diuresed aggressively with Lasix. Typical doses were 40 mg IV
and at the time of discharge the patient could comfortably lie
flat on her back without any discomfort. The patient also was
noted to have some ectopy. Her lytes were repleted. An
echocardiogram was checked which showed normal EF moderate right
ventricular dysfunction and no wall motion abnormalities. This
did not demonstrate any change from prior.
4. Neuropsych: The patient had an altered mental status likely
related to hypercarbic respiratory failure and also hypoxemia at
the time of present admission. She was weaned off sedation. She
had a negative head CT. When she was extubated , the patient was
alert and oriented and returned back to baseline mental status.
5. Heme: The patient was immobile at baseline and is high risk
for PET protocol. CT at the time of admission was negative and
the patient was treated with Lovenox prophylaxis. The patient
was also continued on her iron pills.
6. Renal: The patient has metabolic compensation for
respiratory acidosis which resolved during the ICU stay , and the
patient's creatinine return to baseline during her
hospitalization.
7. GI: The patient received tube feeds through her OG tube and
was transitioned to p.o.'s.
8. Surgery/GYN: The patient has a known colonic vaginal fistula
with purulent vaginal discharge. She was seen by surgery and GYN
who evaluated her and looked at her abdominal CT and felt that
this was not a clinically significant fistula and was not in fact
a source of infection.
9. Disposition: The patient will be discharged to a skilled
nursing facility/rehab facility. She requires intensive
rehabilitation and nursing given her body habitus and her limited
mobility.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: The patient will be discharged on vitamin
C 500 b.i.d. , calcium carbonate 500 t.i.d. , Colace 100 b.i.d. ,
Pepcid 20 b.i.d. , iron sulfate 325 t.i.d. , mag oxide 840 b.i.d. ,
mag sliding scale , Flagyl 500 p.o. t.i.d. to finish on November , zinc sulfate 220 mg p.o. daily , Lovenox 40 mg subq. daily ,
Xalantan 1 drop OU q.p.m. , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily to
finish on August , miconazole nitrate 2% topical powder
b.i.d. , Combivent neb 2 puffs q.i.d. as needed , Promod 2 scoops
p.o. daily , Maalax q.6h p.r.n. upset stomach.
eScription document: 1-3935274 DBSSten Tel
Dictated By: ESANNASON , BELINDA
Attending: DONEHOO , FILOMENA
Dictation ID 7537071
D: 8/30/05
T: 8/30/05