789882744 | PUO | 49201190 | | 8401704 | 8/29/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 1/23/2005 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON MD
SERVICE:
The patient has been treated on Cardiac Surgery Service.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Heart failure.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Ms. Rosenblum is a 56-year-old female with past medical history
significant for obesity and idiopathic cardiomyopathy diagnosed
in 1990 with an EF of 15% who was admitted on 7/20/05 for
one-week history of lower extremity edema and worsening heart
failure. She was treated initially on the Medicine Service where
she was aggressively diuresed but was requiring increasing
pressors and progressing in her CHF despite transfer to the CCU
and appropriate management by the medical team. On 1/10/05 , a
transplant heart became available , and she proceeded to undergo a
heart transplant.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Diabetes , renal failure , gout and obesity.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Tubal ligation , gastric stapling for obesity , and a Hickman
placement.
MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
Lovenox 40 mg q. daily , Lasix 30 IV continuously , dobutamine 5 IV
cutaneously , milrinone 0.3 mcg/kg/ minute , Colace 100 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , sliding scale insulin , metolazone 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
probenecid 500 mg p.o. daily , thiamine 50 mg p.o. daily ,
vancomycin 1 gram IV b.i.d. MVI therapeutic one tab p.o. daily ,
carnitine 0.5 grams p.o. t.i.d. , and Celexa 30 mg p.o. daily.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was initially treated on the Medicine Service but on
1/10/05 was taken to the operating room by the Cardiac Surgery
Service for a heart transplant. For detailed description of the
operative procedure , please see the dictated OP note. The
patient tolerated the procedure and was transferred to the Fre ICU
in a critical condition.
ICU COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
Neurological: Initially , the patient was kept sedated on
propofol as well as intermittent fentanyl and Versed. As she was
weaned towards extubation , her sedating medications were weaned
and she was extubated while on Precedex due to her history of
anxiety. Her Precedex was eventually weaned off and she was
neurologically intact but frequently confused and often
disoriented. Over the next several days , has continued to wean
and she was restarted on her Celexa as well as Ativan for
agitation and anxiety. At the time of transfer , she is
neurologically intact with no focal neurological deficits and she
is no longer confused. She is awake , alert and oriented to
person , place and time and completely appropriate in her speech.
Cardiovascular: Shortly after her operation , she was felt to be
in profound right heart failure. She was started on milrinone
with successive treatment of her right heart failure. Over the
next several days , she was weaned off slowly her pressors and
underwent an echocardiogram which showed moderate-to-severe TR
and a large pericardial effusion with some indentation of the
right atrium with respiration. However , no pericardiocentesis
was performed as the patient was not clinically in tamponade.
She underwent a cardiac catheterization for right heart biopsy ,
the results of which are still pending. At the present time , she
is on diltiazem 15 mg p.o. q.8h. for hypertension as well as
milrinone 0.2. Cardiology is following and plans to keep the
milrinone going for the time being.
Pulmonary. The patient was kept intubated for the first several
days while she was unstable and on pressors. However , as she
began to improve , we weaned towards extubation , and she was
successfully extubated. At the current time , she is able to
ambulate on room air and has no pulmonary issues.
GI: The patient was kept n.p.o. for the first seven days after
her operation. After her extubation , a Dobbhoff feeding tube was
inserted and she was started on tube feeds until she was able to
clear her speech and swallow. Upon clearing her speech and
swallow evaluation , she was started on minced food with thickened
liquids , which she tolerated with minimal signs or symptoms of
aspiration. She was advanced to a house diet with thickened
liquids and is now taking that well and having normal bowel
movements. She is on Nexium for GI prophylaxis.
GU: Initially , she was given a lot of fluid in order to wean her
pressors; however , she was diuresed aggressively after the first
two postoperative days for currently being on a Lasix drip or
receiving large bolus doses of Lasix. Her creatinine has trended
up minorly postoperatively to a current level of 1.8. She is no
longer receiving any diuretics and is just being managed by
keeping her I's and O's even. She is on no nephrotoxic
medications.
Heme: She is frequently anemic with her hematocrit often
trending downwards to levels as low as 20 or 21. She has been
transfused with multiple units of blood products and will be
transfused today one unit of packed red cells for a hematocrit of
21. She has been started on Niferex for iron therapy , and we are
considering the addition of erythropoietin. Otherwise , she is
stable and has no heme issues.
ID and Immunosuppression:
She has been immunosuppressed on various different medications.
Her current regimen is Cellcept 1500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Neoral 125
mg p.o. b.i.d. , prednisone 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. For prophylaxis ,
she is also on Valcyte 450 mg p.o. daily , and Bactrim one double
strength tab q.o.d. as well as nystatin swish and swallow and
powders for her axilla and groin. She has not spiked any temps
and none of her cultures have been positive except for one
urinary culture positive for Gram-negative rods for which she is
on levofloxacin 250 daily for seven days.
Endocrine: Her sugars have been very difficult control. She was
initially on the Portland protocol for several days
postoperatively and on an insulin drip according to her sugar
levels. Diabetes Management Service was consulted and has been
assessing her daily for her insulin needs. She is currently on a
regimen that consist of 30 mg of Lantus every evening as well as
8 units of Novolog with every meal and sliding scale coverage
with Novolog for meals as well. Her sugars are mildly well
controlled but could use tighter glycemic control.
Tubes , Lines , and Drains:
Her wires and chest tubes have been removed. She has no central
access. She just has peripherals.
MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF TRANSFER:
Diltiazem 15 mg p.o. q.8h. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. daily , Ativan 1
mg p.o. q.8h. and 1 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. agitation , magnesium
sliding scale p.o. b.i.d. , magnesium sulfate sliding scale IV
daily , Niferex 150 mg p.o. q.12h. , nystatin 5 ml p.o. q.i.d. ,
prednisone 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , MVI therapeutic with minerals ,
thiamine hydrochloride 100 mg p.o. daily , prednisone 25 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , thiamine 100 mg p.o. daily , milrinone IV 0.2
mcg/kg/minute , Neoral 125 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Bactrim DS one tablet
p.o. daily , Cellcept 1500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , levoflox 250 mg p.o.
daily x7 doses , miconazole 2% powder TP q.8h. , and Celexa 20 mg
p.o. daily , Nexium 40 mg p.o. daily , Valcyte 450 mg p.o. daily ,
Lantus 30 units subcutaneous q.h.s. , DuoNeb q.6h. , Novolog 4
units subcutaneous q.a.c. , Novolog sliding scale subcutaneous
q.a.c. , Novolog sliding scale subq q.h.s. , Novolog 8 units
subcutaneous q.a.c.
DISPOSITION:
She is being transferred to the step-down unit in stable
condition.
eScription document: 8-6359606 EMS
Dictated By: REPLENSKI , DEBERA ZADA
Attending: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON
Dictation ID 6445393
D: 3/18/05
T: 3/18/05