979471841 | PUO | 51095484 | | 2770091 | 11/7/2006 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/1/2006 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 11/28/2006
ATTENDING: KERTESZ , ALETA M.D.
SERVICE:
Cardiac Surgery Service.
ADMITTING DIAGNOSES:
Coronary artery disease and aortic stenosis.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 79-year-old male status post stenting of the PDA and
PTCA , radioablation and stenting of his LAD in 2000. He had
recurrent ischemic symptoms four months later and cardiac
catheterization showed restenosis of his LAD with an 80% lesion
at D3. He had brachytherapy and repeat PTCA. Since then , he has
done well but he had increasing dyspnea from CR. Exercise
thallium test , which showed increasing LV filling pressures
during exercise and inferior apical ischemia. He was admitted
for cardiac catheterization , which was done on 2/13/06 and the
patient was found to have a 45% proximal right coronary artery
disease , 50% distal left main disease , and 95% mid LAD disease.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for hypertension , dyslipidemia , and chest radiation ,
prostate cancer , osteoporosis , and urinary incontinence.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
He was admitted , made ready for surgery. He was taken to the
operating room on 1/5/06. At which time , he underwent a CABG
x3 with a LIMA to the LAD , a saphenous vein graft to the PDA and
a saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal. The patient's
aortic valve was only found to be mildly stenotic with the valve
area of 1.4 and a peak gradient of 30. This was discussed with
his cardiologist , Dr. Buck Moose and a combined decision was made
not to replace the aortic valve at this time. The patient's
immediate postoperative course was uncomplicated. He was
transferred to the Intensive Care Unit in a stable fashion. He
was found to have an inferior lateral ischemia on EKG , therefore ,
he was taken to the cath lab , all grafts were found to be patent
and there was resolution of ischemia. He was weaned off his pressors and he
was extubated.
He was found to be hemodynamically
stable. He was started on Lopressor and gentle diuresis. On
postoperative day #3 , we titrated up his Lopressor and started on
his Norvasc and transferred him to the Step-Down Unit. On
postoperative day #4 , he was slightly tachycardic with ambulation
and we titrated up on his beta-blockers. PA and chest x-ray look
good. Physical therapy was consulted to decide whether the
patient would benefit from rehabilitation. He was started on
empiric levofloxacin for questionable pneumonia. He was found
suitable for discharge on postoperative day #5 , however , the
patient had isolated temperature and his white count was found to
be trending and he was hypertensive. The patient was found to
have a positive blood culture from when he had been in the
Intensive Care Unit and he was continued on levofloxacin. The
patient was discovered to have left leg cellulitis at the knee
where his saphenous vein graft was harvested from. He was
started on vancomycin. This area continued to be watched while
the patient remained on IV antibiotics. He was afebrile. His
white blood cell count was 12. The patient remained stable but
he continued to have a white count and left
leg ultrasound finally done on postoperative day #10 , revealed a
fluid collection above the knee to the mid calf mostly behind his
knee where the area of erythema was and his white blood cell
count went up to 15. Therefore , on 9/6/06 , the patient was
taken to the operating room , at which time , he underwent a
drainage and irrigation of his left lower extremity saphenous
vein donor site , moderate amount of fluid were expressed , and
cultures were taken. The patient was transferred back to the
Step-Down Unit after this procedure. Please see the continuing
dictation done by Pricilla Surgeon for the rest of the patient's
hospital course and discharge status.
eScription document: 9-3105124 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: VERRY , COLETTA
Attending: KERTESZ , ALETA
Dictation ID 2952697
D: 7/12/06
T: 7/12/06