228929386 | PUO | 26756252 | | 104505 | 5/25/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/25/1992 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 3/27/1992
SERVICE: GENERAL MEDICAL SERVICE 8.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. ASTHMA/CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY
DISEASE EXACERBATION.
2. STABLE ANGINA.
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 60 year old
female with a history of coronary
artery disease , asthma , and tobacco use , who presented with a one
week history of cough , yellow sputum production , and increasing
shortness of breath. The patient stated that she has needed to use
her Proventil inhaler with increasing frequency this past week.
The night prior to admission , the patient described using her
inhaler every half hour to one hour with little or no relief. The
patient also complained of "cold" symptoms of rhinitis , sore
throat , and increased cough with yellow sputum production , plus
chills. There was no fever , nausea , or vomiting , no melena or
hematochezia. No dysuria. Plus increased urinary frequency. Plus
headaches. No dizziness. Good p.o. intake. The patient arrived at
the Pagham University Of Emergency Ward and was unable to
perform peak flow. She had an 02 saturation on admission of 96%.
After three nebulizers , the patient was able to perform a peak flow
of 145. She was also given Solu-Medrol 80 mg IV times one in the
Emergency Ward. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: ( 1 ) Asthma/chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease. The patient experiences
approximately one flare per year. She has never been intubated.
She was hospitalized once for asthma in 11/9 and kept approximately
one week. ( 2 ) Stable angina. The patient complains of a history
of angina times three years , presented with substernal burning. The
angina has been stable recently with approximately one episode
every two weeks , always relieved with one sublingual Nitroglycerin.
The angina would also occur when ascending approximately two
flights of stairs. The patient has a history of positive ETT with
thallium in 8/30 , but a cardiac catheterization in 6/8 showed
clean coronaries. The patient also complains of three pillow
orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. CARDIAC RISK FACTORS:
Hypertension and tobacco. No cholesterol , diabetes , or myocardial
infarction history. Questionable family history. ( 3 ) Enlarged
kidney. SOCIAL HISTORY: Tobacco: One pack every three days times
43 years. No alcohol. Retired. FAMILY HISTORY: Mother died of
asthma at a young age. No cardiac history. ALLERGIES: There are
no known drug allergies. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Verapamil SR
240 mg q-day , Isordil 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and Proventil two puffs
b.i.d. , Atrovent two puffs b.i.d. , enteric coated aspirin one p.o.
q-day , Valium p.r.n. , and Lasix 20 mg p.o. q-day p.r.n.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: This is a 60 year old female in no acute
distress. Vital signs reveal a temperature
of 98.4 , blood pressure 140/90 , heart rate 82 and regular ,
respiratory rate of 20 , 02 saturation of 96% on room air. HEENT:
PERRLA , EOMI , oropharynx clear , naries clear. Right tympanic
membrane with fluid , without erythema. Neck: No jugular venous
distension , no bruits , no LAD. Lungs: Poor air movement with
expiratory wheezes throughout , and no rales. Cor: Regular rate
and rhythm , plus S4. Back: No vertebral CVA tenderness. The
abdomen was soft , nontender , plus bowel sounds. Pulses: Radial ,
carotid , femoral , and DP pulses were 2+ bilaterally. Lower
extremities: 1+ pitting edema bilateral. Neurological exam was
nonfocal. Rectal: No masses , guaiac negative.
LABORATORY DATA: The chest x-ray showed no infiltrates , plus
bronchial wall thickening consistent with
bronchitis EKG showed normal sinus rhythm at 81 , PR interval
0.16 , QRS 0.0 , 72 , at 30 degrees. Inverted T-waves in V1 , V4-V6 ,
biphasic T-waves in V3 , and no significant change since 4/10 On
admission , there were normal electrolytes. WBC: 5.4 thousand ,
hematocrit 42 , and platelets 254 , 000.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the stepdown unit on
9-B and given Solu-Medrol 80 mg IV q8 hours and
Albuterol nebulizer q1 hour treatments. She was also given Bactrim
DS one p.o. b.i.d. for presumed bronchitis. The patient did well
over the hospital course with increasing peak flow to over 200 on
discharge. Her lung exam was also much improved with better air
movement on discharge. Immediately after admission , the patient
complained of one episode of burning , substernal chest relieved
with one sublingual Nitroglycerin. She did have EKG changes with
new upright T-waves throughout the precordium and in I , different
from admission. She was ruled out for a myocardial infarction and
had flat CK's. Her upright T-waves in I and V3-V6 continued
throughout the hospital course. This was thought to be secondary
to labile Q-waves as noted in the past. The patient was discharged
on four days of Bactrim and a Prednisone taper.
DISPOSITION: CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. MEDICATIONS ON
DISCHARGE: Atrovent inhaler two puffs q.i.d. ,
Clinoril 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , enteric coated aspirin one p.o.
q-day , Bactrim DS one p.o. b.i.d. times four days , Verapamil Sr 240
mg p.o. q.a.m. and 180 mg p.o. q.p.m. , Azmacort inhaler two puffs
b.i.d. , Isordil 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Albuterol inhaler two puffs
q.i.d. , Prednisone 60 mg p.o. q-day wean to off in two weeks ,
Valium 5 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. , and Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.
p.r.n. FOLLOWUP CARE: With Dr. Peggy Romig to be arranged by the
patient within two weeks of discharge. DIET: Low salt , low
cholesterol. ACTIVITY: As tolerated.
Dictated By: JACK T. TIMPSON , M.D. EX11
Attending: PEGGY K. ROMIG , M.D. AB14
KY631/4550
Batch: 7002 Index No. INPFDA4JT1 D: 6/11/92
T: 8/19/92