102170309 | PUO | 15679004 | | 970948 | 9/3/1998 12:00:00 AM | OSTEOARTHRITIS LT. HIP | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/10/1998 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 8/29/1998
DIAGNOSIS: OSTEOARTHRITIS - LEFT HIP , STATUS POST LEFT TOTAL HIP
REPLACEMENT ON 9/3/98 .
HISTORY: Ms. Strassner is a 72-year-old woman with a history of
osteoarthritis , status post right total hip arthroplasty. She
presents now with end stage osteoarthritis of her left hip. Her
original surgery was performed by Dr. Depalo . The patient currently
reports that she is able to ambulate , but with difficulty even
using a cane. She is only able to walk minimally and is not able
to walk one city block. She is unable to go outside of her home or
up and down stairs at this time.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for urinary incontinence which
was treated by her urologist , Dr.
Lorretta Cridge , with Urised for two weeks prior to this
admission. She is also status post right total hip arthroplasty in
August 1997.
ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to Sulfa.
MEDICATIONS: Ibuprofen on a p.r.n. basis and Urised which she
discontinued just prior to being evaluated
preoperatively.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married and lives with her husband
at home.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies chest pain , nausea ,
vomiting , fevers or chills. She has no
shortness of breath. No orthopnea. She has no hematuria or
dysuria. She does report urinary frequency secondary to
incontinence.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On examination , blood pressure is 130/90 ,
temperature is 98.8 with a pulse of 60 and a
respiratory rate 16 , height 5'6" and weight of 180 lb. In general ,
the patient is an elderly woman in no acute distress. Skin shows
no evidence of lesions. There is no evidence of lymphadenopathy.
Head , ears , eyes , nose and throat reveals pupils equal , round and
reactive to light and accommodation with extraocular movements
intact. Her neck is supple with no tenderness. Her breasts have
no masses. Her lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Heart: Regular rate and rhythm with no evidence of murmur , gallop
or rub detected. Her abdomen is soft , nontender and nondistended
with no masses. Neurologically , the patient is alert and oriented
times three. Cranial nerves II-XII are intact. Examination of the
extremities shows sensation intact to light touch and pinprick in
the L1-S1 distributions. Motor is 5/5 in the iliopsoas ,
quadriceps , AT , EHL , FHL and GS. She has palpable dorsalis pedis
and posterior tibial pulses. Her left hip range of motion has
flexion to 110 degrees. She has external rotation to 20 degrees
and internal rotation to 15 degrees with pain. Deep tendon
reflexes are normal.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was given a prescription for Coumadin
to be taken on the evening prior to her surgery
and was admitted on 5/23/98 at which time she underwent and
uneventful left total hip replacement. She was treated with
perioperative antibiotics and at the time of bladder
catheterization preoperatively , urinalysis and urine culture were
sent. She was treated with perioperative antibiotics and was
continued on Coumadin postoperatively.
On postoperative day #1 , Hemovac drain was discontinued and her
laboratory values revealed a hematocrit of 29.6. She was
transfused with one unit of packed red blood cells. She did
complain of some nausea related to her pain medications which
resolved after treatment with Droperidol initially and then
Compazine later. On postoperative day #2 , her dressing was taken
down and the incision was noted to be clean , dry and intact with no
evidence of erythema or discharge. On postoperative day #3 , she
failed a voiding trial and Dr. Cridge from the Urology Department
was consulted. He recommended continued Foley catheterization or
intermittent catheterization for failure to void or for low output
incontinence , and further recommended suppression antibiotics in
the early post perioperative period. The patient was treated with
Velosef 500 milligrams p.o. q.i.d. because of her sulfa drug
allergy. On discharge , she was also given a prescription for seven
days of Velosef.
On postoperative day #4 , the patient was noted to be doing well.
Plans were made for her to be discharged to home with VNA Services
for wound checks , and physical therapy for gait training , partial
weightbearing on the left lower extremity. The patient will also
have PT and INR levels checked two times per week while at home.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Velosef 500 milligrams p.o. q.i.d. ,
Colace 100 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , Coumadin
to keep a PT/INR between 1.5-2.0. We will begin treating her with
2 milligrams p.o. q. h.s. , Percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.
pain.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient was instructed to keep the
incision clean and dry for five additional
days and then was told that she may shower , but take no baths. She
was instructed to take the Coumadin for 3-6 weeks for a PT/INR goal
of 1.5-2.0. She was also instructed to continue the Velosef for
seven days as per Dr. Iseri recommendation. She was instructed
not to drive until this was okay with Dr. Depalo and she was
instructed to remain partial weightbearing on the left lower
extremity. She was further instructed to follow up with Dr. Depalo
in six weeks.
COMPLICATIONS DURING ADMISSION: None.
CONDITION: Stable.
DISPOSITION: Home with VNA Services.
Dictated By: PRECIOUS KNUTESON , M.D. BM182
Attending: SOFIA DEPALO , M.D. YB3  IG327/4592
Batch: 4554 Index No. TNELB33UX D: 7/3/98
T: 2/19/98