439543912 | PUO | 78614353 | | 047620 | 5/25/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/19/1993 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 2/10/1993
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: COMPLETE HEART BLOCK.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Oberdick is a 43 year old male
with Down's syndrome who was admitted
with multiple episodes of syncope over the prior 8-10 years. These
were characterized by emesis followed by loss of consciousness with
a question of seizure like activity. This had occurred on a yearly
basis for 8-10 years. Such an episode occurred on May At that
time , his mother brought him to the Gle Ra Csylv Valley Medical Center Emergency Room
because he developed a facial hematoma after one of these episodes.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: In the Emergency Room he was noted to be
somewhat groggy with a brief episode of
apparent loss of consciousness with a question of apnea. He was
sent to head CT for a scan and at that time he vomiting with loss
of consciousness and a decrease in heart rate to 30 beats per
minute. He was intubated in the CT scan room , sedated and paralyzed
while the study was completed. When he arrived in the Intensive
Care Unit , he had a heart beat in the 20s with complete heart
block , which was transient and with subsequent return to normal
sinus rhythm. The remainder of his exam was remarkable for an S4
and I/VI systolic ejection murmur. NEURO: The neurological exam was
nonfocal.
LABORATORY DATA: Electrolytes were normal. His EKG showed sinus
tachycardia with an axis of 0 , ST flattening in
leads V5 and V6 , I in L and a question of a Q in III. Chest X-ray
raised the question of an infiltrate in the left base. The head CT
was negative. His course in the MICU was as follows: He ruled out
for myocardial infarction , despite an elevated CK. The MB fraction
was negative on electrophoresis. On the morning of February , he
spiked a temperature to 102.3 and was begun on Penicillin. Later on
February he had an episode of complete heart block with asystole for
9 seconds. Otherwise , he alternated sinus tachycardia and second
degree heart block with runs of bradycardia at the rate of 30-40
and also tachycardia.
HOSPITAL COURSE: A temporary pacemaker was placed on February
through the left subclavian approach. At that
time , he was hemodynamically stable , except for intermittent
hypertension , which was treated with Nifedipine. He was
transferred to the Cardiology Waistan Tavi Whiterow Dr , Anting Huntgeux Rochelis , Oklahoma 24268 on January , 1993 to await
pacemaker placement. He was switched from Nifedipine to Captopril
for treatment of his hypertension and his fever was treated with
Cefotetan for presumed aspiration pneumonia. This has resulted in a
delay in his pacemaker placement. He intermittently had a
pericardial friction rub on physical examination that was thought
to be most likely due to myocardial irritation by the pacing wire
implantation. One echocardiogram in a series did reveal a regional
wall motion abnormality that may have been a function of the
pacemaker wire as well. He remained afebrile and completed a course
of antibiotics for his presumed aspiration pneumonia , although
subsequent chest x-rays did not support that diagnosis. He
required replacement of his temporary pacemaker wire while awaiting
permanent pacemaker placement to decrease the risk of infection.
He underwent permanent pacemaker placement in the Operating Room
with anesthesia backup in case there was need for intubation
because the patient had difficulty remaining still. The pacemaker
replacement was performed on July , 1993. Intubation was not
necessary.
DISPOSITION: He tolerated the procedure well and was discharged to
home on May , 1993. MEDICATIONS: The medications at
discharge were: Kefzol 500mg q.i.d. for 3 days , and Lisinopril 10mg
p.o. q day. He will followup with Dr. Jacquet on March , 1993 and in
KTDUOO with Dr. Denisha Mcrorie Secondary Diagnoses were pacemaker
placement and Down's syndrome.
Dictated By: LULA A. MOUN , M.D. EC27
Attending: VERDA A. TRIARSI , M.D. GY7
YP322/5981
Batch: 4976 Index No. M1VFXY00W1 D: 3/8/93
T: 3/8/93