354230748 | PUO | 93387199 | | 645184 | 11/7/1998 12:00:00 AM | FAILED LT. KNEE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/10/1998 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 4/10/1998
DIAGNOSIS: FAILED LEFT TOTAL KNEE REPLACEMENT.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mrs. Harbin is an 80-year-old woman who
had a left primary total knee
replacement performed in 1976 for psoriatic arthritis. The patient
did well up until last fall when she developed pain and swelling
and occasional symptoms of catching. Radiographs showed failure of
her femoral component with evidence of polyethylene wear.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for psoriatic arthritis
and noninsulin dependent diabetes
mellitus which is diet controlled.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Status post bilateral total knee
replacements in 1976. Status post
right total hip replacement in 1992. Status post left total hip
replacement in 1988. Status post bilateral metacarpophalangeal and
proximal interphalangeal arthroplasties. Status post
cholecystectomy. Status post total abdominal hysterectomy with
umbilical hernia in the past.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Voltaren p.r.n.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient denies a history of
cigarette smoking or alcohol use. She
is on an 1800 ADA diet. The patient is a widow who resides in
S Down Wood , and plans to be discharged to
rehabilitation.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient wears bifocals. The
patient has a remote history of
migraine headaches. The patient has a history of tuberculosis in
childhood but no positive chest x-ray findings. The patient has a
history of shortness of breath with exertion but no history of
coronary artery disease , myocardial infarction , chest pain ,
congestive heart failure , or deep vein thrombosis. The patient has
a history of noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus which is diet
controlled. Her primary care physician is Dr. Devin Brady of
A
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination blood pressure
is 150/80 with a pulse of 62 , height is
5'3" and weight is 170 lbs. In general the patient is an obese
woman with an antalgic gait on the left without an assistive
device. Examination of her lymph nodes showed no lymphadenopathy.
HEENT revealed pupils equal , round , and reactive to light with
extraocular movements intact and normal pharynx. Her lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally. Her heart was regular rate and
rhythm with a normal S1 and S2 and no murmur. Her abdomen was
obese , soft , nontender , and nondistended. Neurologically there
were no focal findings. Extremities , the left knee revealed a
medial parapatellar incision which was well healed. She had active
range of motion with a 10 degree extension deficit and flexion to
90 degrees. She had a palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial
pulse and was neurovascularly intact distally. The patient was
instructed to discontinue her NSAIDs and was given a prescription
for Coumadin 5 mg p.o. on the evening prior to her surgery.
HOSPITAL COURSE: On 12 of November the patient underwent
revision of left total knee
replacement. She tolerated the procedure well with no
intraoperative complications. She received perioperative
antibiotics and was continued on Coumadin postoperatively. On
postoperative day one the patient was noted to be doing quite well.
Her Hemovac put out a total of 540 cc initially plus 60 cc more
overnight , and the Hemovac was discontinued. She was continued on
the Ancef , Coumadin , and given pain medicines.
On postoperative day two the patient was having a difficult time
cooperating with the nursing staff. She was refusing treatments ,
medications , and blood draws. Later in the day the patient seemed
to be doing better , perhaps due to the arrival of her daughters.
She became more compliant.
On postoperative day three the patient's mental status improved and
she was compliant. She was doing quite well on the CPM with range
of motion of 0-50 degrees. Views of the left knee were obtained by
x-ray. On 10 of March the patient was noted to be doing well. The
incision was noted to be clean and dry with no evidence of
infection. Plans were made for her to be discharged to
rehabilitation.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. four hours
p.r.n. headache , Benadryl 25-50 mg p.o.
q. h.s. p.r.n. sleep , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , iron sulfate 300
mg p.o. t.i.d. times five days , Folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. times four
days , multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d. , Percocet 1-2 capsules p.o.
q. 3-4 hours p.r.n. pain , Metamucil p.r.n. , Sorna topical lotion
q.d. p.r.n. itch , Coumadin to keep the PT INR between 1.5 and 2.0
for a total of six weeks , and nizatidine 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS: The patient was instructed to keep the
incision clean and dry for five more
days , and then she may begin showering as long as there is no
evidence of a discharge. The patient was instructed not to take
baths. A dry sterile dressing may be applied on a p.r.n. basis.
The patient is to continue working with physical therapy for range
of motion and gait training per the Total Knee Replacement
protocol.
COMPLICATIONS DURING ADMISSION: None.
DISPOSITION: To rehabilitation.
CONDITION UPON DISCHARGE: Stable.
Dictated By: PRECIOUS KNUTESON , M.D. BM182
Attending: SOFIA DEPALO , M.D. IE3
TH450/1120
Batch: 4887 Index No. XTYZRE92VK D: 1/17/98
T: 1/17/98