486555786 | PUO | 76780305 | | 928524 | 10/4/2002 12:00:00 AM | CELLULITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/13/2002 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/11/2002
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: LOWER EXTREMITY VENOUS STASIS WITH
SUPERIMPOSED CELLULITIS.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: LOWER EXTREMITY VENOUS STASIS WITH
SUPERIMPOSED CELLULITIS , RESOLVED.
SERVICE: GENERAL MEDICAL Myby Boulevard
CONSULTS OBTAINED: Infectious Disease and Dermatology.
HISTORY: The patient is a 56 year old woman with chronic venous
stasis complicated by Psychiatric history , chronic
noncompliance , and visits to multiple care providers , readmitted
for painful , swollen , red , right lower extremity. The patient had
a previous episode of cellulitis of the right lower extremity in
July of 2002 treated at Norap Valley Hospital with clindamycin ,
leading to a clostridium difficile colitis; previous episodes
resolved entirely. The patient now returned with a one week
history of increasing symptoms of the right lower extremity. She
reported positive subjective fevers as well as chills. She denied
nausea , vomiting , bright red blood per rectum , melena or chest
pain. The patient does report chronic abdominal pain , positive
dyspnea on exertion , but no dysuria.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature is 98.2 , pulse 87 , blood
pressure 134/69 , respirations 20/minute ,
oxygen saturation 95% on room air. Physical examination reveals a
morbidly obese middle aged female in no acute distress. The
patient is alert and oriented. Speech , however , is pressured and
tangential. The left lower extremity is remarkable for 1+ edema
and brawny hyperpigmentation below the knee. The right lower
extremity is erythematous and shiny below the knee with 2+ edema.
The extremity is very tender to the touch. On admission white
blood cell 8.6 , urinalysis 4+ squamous. A right lower extremity
x-ray revealed no bony abnormalities. Chest x-ray showed no
infiltrates.
HOSPITAL COURSE: From an I.D. standpoint , cellulitis was treated
with Ancef without improvement. Based on input
from the Infectious Disease Service the patient was switched to
intravenous vancomycin on August Blood cultures were negative
from February A repeat urinalysis was negative. A dermatology
consult was obtained on March and gave an impression of
cellulitis secondary to venous insufficiency and obesity and
possible tinea pedis. The consult recommended discontinuing
nystatin and triamcinolone with use of Spectazole and miconazole
between the toes on lower legs and inframammary b.i.d. On October Infectious Disease saw the patient and confirmed the impression
of cellulitis. They also voiced concern for adequate dosing of
vancomycin given the patient's size and to properly cover non
staphylococcal etiologies. The vancomycin dose was increased to
1.5 gram IV q. 12 hours and then to q. eight hours. On the 4 of October of
February the dorsum of the left foot was draining a serous fluid. At
the time a CT was also obtained which was negative for any fluid
collections. Debridement was not recommended at that time. The
patient at that time was still receiving levaquin. Dermatology saw
the patient on May once more and supported the diagnosis of
chronic venous stasis. From a hematologic standpoint , the
beginning of this day , the patient received lower extremity ,
noninvasive imaging to rule out deep venous thrombosis. These were
negative for deep venous thrombosis. From a psychiatric standpoint
the patient has an undifferentiated psychiatric disorder , most
possibly bipolar with a manic component but refused to see Psych
and instead insisted on taking Dexedrine for a claimed diagnosis of
narcolepsy. In the absence of prescription , the patient reportedly
took her own medications while in the hospital. The mental status
examination is significant for pressured speech , tangential in
nature and evidence of poor short-term memory. The patient lacks
any suicidal or homicidal ideation and does not appear to have any
psychotic component. From a cardiovascular and fluid standpoint ,
Lasix diuresis was attempted and a Foley catheter was placed.
Given that all of the involved sources believed that the most
fundamental cause for the patient's symptoms was fluid overload and
venous insufficiency in the lower extremities , aggressive diuresis
was continued , leading ultimately to a dose of 80 mg of Lasix
b.i.d. An echocardiogram on May showed right ventricular
dilatation without any compromise in function. From a
musculoskeletal standpoint the patient did suffer a fall while
standing on September She had no head trauma. She did complain
of some right knee pain without functional impairment. There was
no instability in the joint. The patient also later complained of
pain in the right foot , which he complained resulted from the fall.
However three views from the foot showed no evidence of fracture of
significant soft tissue disease. A chronic issue during the
patient's stay was her refusal to look forward to discharge despite
evidence that her acute issues had corrected and that improvement
of her chronic underlying condition would require comprehensive
therapy on a home and outpatient basis. By the 29 of October the
patient's cellulitis had resolved and this had been confirmed by
Infectious Disease reconsult. At that point only stasis dermatitis
continued. The vancomycin was therefore discontinued after
adequate antibiotic course. On September the lower extremity
continued to show improvement. On August the patient was
deemed ready for discharge. She was advanced to continue Lasix at
80 mg p.o. b.i.d. with potassium at 60 meq p.o. per day to replace
any losses. Other meds were prescribed as before. The patient was
also sent home with ketoconazole for a short course and a small
supply of oxycodone to control her pain until she could follow-up
wit her new outpatient provider Dr. Duva at A Triaded Health The
plan was to leave the patient's Foley catheter in because she had
persistent problems with urinary incontinence which predates this
hospital admission. The patient plans to see Urogynecologist , Dr.
Baumohl for this problem. We arranged outpatient follow-up
appointments for the patient with both of these doctors , Dr. Duva
and Dr. Baumohl on November All of the information was
communicated verbally to the patient. The patient was advised to
take all medications as directed. We emphasized that it's very
important for her to elevate her legs regularly and to try to limit
soft drink intake as this was likely contributing to the swelling
in her legs. She was instructed to weight herself daily and to
contact her primary care physician if her weight was steadily
increasing. We advised her to seek medical attention for fever ,
increased redness or new pronounced swelling in her legs , any
numbness or tingling in her legs , new skin ulcers or any other
concerns.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Betoptic S eye drops 0.25% to the right
eye one drop b.i.d. , Klonopin 1 mg p.o.
q.h.s. , Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , potassium chloride slow release 60
mEq p.o. daily , albuterol and ipratropium nebulizer inhaler 3/0.5
mg q 4-6h p.r.n. shortness of breath or wheezing.
Dictated By: ROSSIE KAYCEE MANKOSKI , M.D. LG484
Attending: AVRIL TAPLIN , M.D. FW48
BD494/569980
Batch: 89015 Index No. Z3RK29D3A2 D: 2/5/02
T: 10/18/02
CC: Dr. Duva , A Triaded Health