921778812 | PUO | 49448215 | | 6221735 | 1/20/2006 12:00:00 AM | S/P UNWITNESSED FALL , R/O SYNCOPE | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/1/2006 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 2/2/2006
ATTENDING: HANSBERRY , SHAN M.D.
SERVICE:
MH team.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS FOR ADMISSION:
Status post fall and urinary tract infection.
LIST OF PROBLEMS DURING ADMISSION:
1. Dehydration.
2. Urinary tract infection.
3. Dementia.
4. Diabetes.
5. Demand MI.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is an 83-year-old female with multiple medical problems most
notably for mitral stenosis status post a St. Jude's valve
repair , nonobstructive coronary artery disease , atrial
fibrillation status post pacemaker. The patient currently lives
at home alone and has had numerous recent admissions for
mechanical falls. The patient was admitted this time
11/20/06 after falling at home in the bathroom. The patient was
found by her grandson who called EMS. She was down for
approximately 24 hours. She denied any lightheadedness , chest
pain , shortness of breath. She does recall some frequent
urination for the past couple days and malaise , no fever or
chills. Family states that they are very concerned about the
patient's ability to take care of herself. However , the patient
insists she is independent and does not want to be placed in
rehabilitation or have 24-hour supervision at home.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for mitral stenosis with St. Jude's mitral valve
repair , nonobstructive coronary artery disease , atrial
fibrillation status post pacemaker.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily.
2. Coumadin 5 mg half a tablet Monday , Wednesday , Friday and
Sunday.
3. Amiodarone 100 mg daily.
4. Lasix 40 mg daily.
5. Glyburide 2.5 mg b.i.d.
6. Lisinopril 20 mg daily.
7. Isordil 20 mg b.i.d.
8. Zocor 20 mg nightly.
9. Ultram p.r.n.
ALLERGIES:
The patient is allergic to aspirin and penicillin , both cause a
rash.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:
Positive for frequent urination and malaise , no other complaints.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:
Vital Signs: Temperature 98.7 , blood pressure 160/64 , heart rate
80 , respiratory rate 18 , O2 saturation 98% on room air. The
patient appeared in no apparent distress , awake , alert , and
oriented x3. HEENT: Bitemporal wasting , left eye with purulent
discharge. CVS: Normal S1 , S2 , irregularly irregular , mitral
valve click is audible. JVP is 5 cm. Lungs: Clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Extremities: Trace ankle edema
bilaterally. Neuro: Awake , alert and oriented x3 , no focal
deficits.
PERTINENT LABS ON ADMISSION:
Sodium 146 , creatinine 1.1. INR 2.1. Urinalysis revealed 2+
ketones , 3+ blood , 3+ protein , 15-25 hyaline casts , 25 white
blood cells and 2+ bacteria. Urine cultures and blood cultures
showed no growth. EKG was atrial fibrillation at a rate of with
occasional pacer spikes and old Q-waves in lead III and aVF and
an old right bundle-branch block. Chest x-ray was negative
except for cardiomegaly. CT of the head and neck was negative.
Left hip and pelvic plain films were negative for fractures.
PROCEDURES DURING ADMISSION:
The patient had an echocardiogram , which showed any EF of 60-65%
and moderate-to-severe left atrial enlargement and right atrial
elongation.
ASSESSMENT:
This is an 83-year-old female with a history of multiple falls
who presented after being found down for approximately 24 hours
in her bathroom in the setting of suspected urinary tract
infection and dehydration.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Infectious disease: The patient was found to have a urinary
tract infection and was appropriately treated with Levaquin for
three days. After treatment , the patient remained afebrile with
no leukocytosis. Urine and blood cultures were negative , and a
repeat urinalysis was negative.
2. Cardiovascular: The patient had an echocardiogram done which
revealed an EF of 60-65% and moderate-to-severe left atrial
enlargement and right atrial elongation. The patient's mitral
valve was unremarkable. The patient's cardiac enzymes were
cycled , and she was found to have a troponin leak
secondary to demand. Troponin leak did resolve. Serial EKGs
were done , and there were no change when compared with the past
EKG. She was hypertensive on admission and she was continued on
her Lasix and lisinopril , which controlled her blood pressure.
Lasix has been held for the past couple of days due to
dehydration but may be resumed at discharge.
3. Endocrine: The patient was taken off of her p.o.
hyperglycemic meds while she was an inpatient and placed on
diabetic protocol of NPH 6 units b.i.d. and 3 units of Aspart
q.a.c. with the sliding scale. Her blood sugars were well
controlled.
4. Fluids , Electrolytes and Nutrition: The patient was
dehydrated on admission and given gentle IV fluids. Lasix was
held and should be restarted at discharge. However , at rehab , if
the patient appears to be dehydrated , her Lasix should be
stopped. The patient's sodium at discharge also went up from
142-146. Free water is encouraged at the bedside. The patient
had a swallow evaluation to assess for any aspiration. Swallow
evaluation recommended mechanical soft diet with thin liquids and
stated that the patient had no signs of aspiration.
5. Hematology: The patient has subtherapeutic INR that is now
being bridged with Lovenox. Her goal INR is 2.5-3.5 given her
St. Jude mitral valve. At discharge , INR is 1.4. The patient
should be continued on Lovenox 60 mg daily , which is renally
dosed as well as Coumadin 5 mg nightly until her INR is
therapeutic and then the Lovenox may be discontinued.
6. Psychiatry: On 8/19/06 , the patient became very agitated
and hostile attempting to exit the bed. The patient was given 1
mg of Haldol and required 4-point restraints. The patient had no
further episodes of this extreme agitation. She does , however ,
have Haldol 0.5 mg b.i.d. as needed for agitation. She was
placed on Zyprexa 2.5 mg nightly , which currently is controlling
her behavior. The patient was followed by Psych during this
admission. At first , the patient was refusing to go to rehab and
she was clearly not safe to go home. Psych did evaluate the
patient to see whether she was capable of making a decision , and
Psych did not feel that she had good judgment or insight into her
problems. Psychiatry felt the patient needed to go to rehab and
after convincing , the patient is now agreeable to go to
rehabilitation.
7. Disposition: The patient is medically stable and now is
going to the Abois Che Memorial Hospital for rehabilitation. The patient is to
fill out her healthcare proxy performed indicating that her son
and minister will be her healthcare proxy. Physical therapy and
occupational therapy has worked with this patient during the
hospitalization and both recommend rehabilitation prior to
returning home. The patient is a fall risk and needs to be
closely watched while she is being anticoagulated.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE:
The patient's vital signs are stable. She is awake and alert and
oriented x2-3. She does have some episodes of confusion , and her
speech is somewhat slurred at times. The respiratory exam is
unremarkable.
LABS AT DISCHARGE:
INR was 1.4.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:
The patient is to continue Lovenox 60 mg subq daily and Coumadin
5 mg nightly. Lovenox may be discontinued when INR is 2.5-3.5.
The patient is to follow up with Dr. Aspacio on 10/7 at 2:15 p.m.
The patient's blood sugars should be monitored at rehabilitation
before meals and corrected with a NovoLog sliding scale , and the
patient should be encouraged to drink free water at the bedside
and her electrolytes should be monitored. The patient's Lasix
may be held if she appeared dehydrated.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Amiodarone 100 mg p.o. daily , Norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily , Lovenox
60 mg subq daily , Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily , Micronase 2.5 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , Haldol 0.5 mg IV b.i.d. p.r.n. , NovoLog sliding scale
before meals , Isordil 20 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o.
daily , Zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. nightly , Zocor 20 mg p.o. nightly ,
Ultram 25 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. at bedtime
ADVANCE DIRECTIVES:
The patient is a full code. Health care proxy is her son ,
Anciso and her minister.
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN:
Shalonda Aspacio , M.D.
eScription document: 5-2881402 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: OSMERS , TESSA
Attending: HANSBERRY , SHAN
Dictation ID 5667076
D: 1/18/06
T: 1/18/06