621063612 | PUO | 35230079 | | 982079 | 7/10/1997 12:00:00 AM | UNSTABLE ANGINA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/10/1997 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 3/15/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Gastroenteritis , resolved. Atypical chest
pain , GI versus cardiac.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Benulis is a 60 year woman with
past medical history significant for
diabetes , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , smoking ,
gastroesophageal reflux and hypertension. Two days prior to
admission , she ate some Chinese food in the evening and felt some
mild stomach upset. One day prior to admission , she ate the
leftovers of this Chinese food and again , felt stomach upset. A
short time later , she began vomiting food and water but no blood.
This continued , up to and including the day of admission. She
developed some left sided epigastric pain under her left ribs and
in her left upper quadrant. This radiated to her back but nowhere
else. She cannot describe the pain other than to say it is "really
bad."
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Notable for shortness of breath walking up her
15 stairs and shortness of breath with doing
dishes , requiring a break every fifteen minutes.
In the emergency department , she continued to have emesis of small
amounts of clear fluid and food. She had one episode of witnessed
emesis of small clumps of red blood in the emergency department.
During one episode of emesis , she had abdominal pain which she
described as radiating also to her left chest and this was relieved
with two sublingual nitroglycerin.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As above , plus remote history of peptic
ulcer disease.
FAMILY HISTORY: Positive for diabetes.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient came to this country from E Ra Tampchi
when she was 38 years old. She is a retired
domestic worker. She is widowed and lives with her daughter. She
has a home health aid three times a week. The patient has smoked
one pack per day of cigarettes for twenty years.
ALLERGIES: Contrast dye causes a rash and itching.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Insulin NPH 44 units q. a.m. , 22 units
q. p.m. , Insulin regular 14 units q.
a.m. , 5 units q. p.m. , Mevacor 10 mg p.o. q. day , Lisinopril 20 mg
p.o. q. day.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Afebrile , pulse 66 , blood
pressure 142/50 , respiratory
rate of 12 , oxygen saturation 98% on two liters. In general , the
patient is a comfortable , mildly heavy woman. She has moist mucous
membranes. There is no jugular venous distention. Her lungs are
clear in all fields. Her heart is in a regular rate and rhythm ,
with somewhat distant heart sounds. There is no murmur heard.
Her abdomen is completely benign , with good bowel sounds. Her
liver and spleen are not palpable. There is no peripheral edema.
LABORATORIES: Admission EKG revealed a normal axis , normal sinus
rhythm , with some mild T-wave flattening in V5 and
V6. Chest x-ray on admission was normal.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Cardiovascular: The patient was started on
intravenous Heparin in the emergency department
and written for rule out MI protocol. Her CKs were mildly
elevated , between 500 and 600 , with normal MB fractions. Her
troponin levels did not reveal any evidence of cardiac ischemia or
injury. The Heparin was stopped after she ruled out for myocardial
infarction. She continued to have some mild abdominal pain ,
however these episodes were always associated with concurrent
nausea and vomiting. The abdominal pain was immediately relieved
after she vomited. This resolved after three days , and she was
scheduled for an exercise treadmill test with MIBI. The patient
went six minutes on a manual protocol treadmill. She went at a
slow rate and did not complete stage one. She had 1/2 to 1 mm SP
depressions which were flat in one to two leads. She had some
vague chest heaviness , which technically qualified as symptomatic ,
however the technician stated that there suspicion was that it was
more fatigue. Because the chest was formally positive but with
still no suspicion for significant ischemia , a MIBI scan was
performed. This demonstrated mild ischemia with exercise in 4 of
25 inferior segments only. After her GI distress resolved , the
patient had no further episodes of chest pain. Although the
patient may have some coronary artery disease , it is not felt that
this is actively symptomatic in her. She will be followed up in
clinic and started on beta-blocker and/or nitrates if she has clear
symptoms of anginal pain.
Gastrointestinal: The patient was admitted with obvious
gastroenteritis. She did not have any diarrhea with these
episodes. She was treated with a mild diet and antiemetics as
needed. Her GI symptoms resolved after three days and she is
eating well at the time of discharge. She was started on
omeprazole 20 mg p.o. q. day for her heartburn pain.
Diabetes: The patient was followed during this admission by Dr.
Cafagno , her primary endocrinologist. Her blood sugar controls
while here were excellent. She was given a container for a routine
24 hour urine collection for protein , to be completed as an
outpatient.
Health Maintenance: The patient was started on Nicoderm patches
and advised to stop smoking. She received her flu shot while here.
MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day. Insulin
NPH 35 units q. a.m. , 18 units q. p.m.. Insulin
regular sliding scale q. a.c. and q. h.s.. Insulin regular 12
units q. a.m. , 5 units q. p.m.. Mevacor 10 mg p.o. q. day.
omeprazole 20 mg p.o. q. day. Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q. day.
Nicotine patch seven mg per day.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Good.
DISPOSITION: The patient is discharged to home with ongoing VNA
services.
FOLLOW UP: She will follow up in my clinic on 8/15/97 at 9:40
a.m.
Dictated By: DIA RIEMENSCHNEID , M.D. OI60
Attending: WENDI B. NEWAND , M.D. PE39
HO943/3503
Batch: 25029 Index No. VYPZWY3YLI D: 5/16/97
T: 4/26/97