209514778 | PUO | 19125161 | | 9818062 | 5/18/2006 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE , ATRIAL FIBRILLATION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/28/2006 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 1/6/2006
ATTENDING: PETTINGER , DOUGLASS MD
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
The patient was admitted for an elective right heart
catheterization and reassessment of refractory CHF and atrial fibrillation He
is a 62-year-old man with
a history of nonischemic cardiomyopathy with an EF of 30% who was diagnosed
about ten years ago and has been stable with medical management
until this past year when he started developing worsening dyspnea
on exertion , orthopnea , palpitations , and PND. His functional
status has declined significantly since then. In 11/26 , he was
admitted for decompensated heart failure and diuresed back to dry
weight. An ICD was placed at that time. Following discharge , he
developed AFib with rapid ventricular response and underwent DC
cardioversion with Dr. Norine Dehl however , relapsed shortly ,
thereafter. He was started on amiodarone , but developed a
question of pulmonary toxicity with significant dry coughing. He
was continued to be in atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular
response despite maximal carvedilol and digoxin. He is now being
electively admitted for right heart catheterization , diuresis ,
and possible repeat cardioversion versus amiodarone challenge ,
and completion of his transplant evaluation.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Nonischemic cardiomyopathy , EF of 30% , atrial fibrillation status
post ICD placement , echo in 2/10 with an EF of 30-35% with a
dilated LV and anterior wall and septal hypokinesis , mild mitral
regurgitation , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , and diabetes.
MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
Include aspirin 325 mg daily , carvedilol 25 mg b.i.d. , digoxin
0.125 mg daily , Lasix 60 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril 20 mg p.o.
daily , Vytorin 10 mg p.o. daily , Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily ,
metformin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Coumadin , iron sulfate 325 mg daily , and magnesium gluconate 500
mg p.o. b.i.d.
ALLERGIES:
He has a questionable allergy to amiodarone.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
Lives on Fay , Maine 25284 He does not drink , smoke , or use any other
drugs.
PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:
He was afebrile with a heart rate of 106 in atrial fibrillation.
His blood pressure is 102/78 and satting 98% on room air. He was
in no distress. His JVP was approximately 12 cm. He had a right
ventricular heave. His rate was irregularly irregular with an
S3 , no murmurs. Chest is clear to auscultation. He had a
palpable pulsatile liver tip , but otherwise , his abdomen was
benign. He had no lower extremity edema.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
He is a 62-year-old man with nonischemic cardiomyopathy , EF 30% ,
awaiting transplant who is now admitted for right heart
catheterization and diuresis for volume overload and possible
amiodarone challenge versus cardioversion , rate and rhythm
control atrial fibrillation.
Cardiovascular: The patient had no evidence of ischemia. He was
mildly volume overloaded and was gently diuresed with p.o. Lasix
and eventually b.i.d. p.o. torsemide at 60 mg b.i.d. He was
diuresed onto his dry weight of 70 kilograms. He underwent
exercise stress testing and was able to go for 7 minutes without
any ischemic changes. His rhythm rate was in atrial fibrillation
throughout. He has peak oxygen uptake with above is anaerobic
threshold and his peak respiratory exchange ratio was 1.44. He
underwent a chest CT , which showed no evidence of amiodarone
pneumonitis or interstitial disease , and then was subsequently
started on amiodarone challenge in attempts to rhythm and rate
control of atrial fibrillation. He was resistant to the
amiodarone in terms of rate and rhythm control; however , began
developing elevated LFTs consistent with amiodarone hepatitis as
well as a persistent dry cough concerning for amiodarone
pulmonary toxicity. The amiodarone was stopped and he was
started on dofetilide at 125 mg p.o. b.i.d. for correcting for
his creatinine clearance. After 2 doses of dofetilide , he
converted to normal sinus rhythm and was rate controlled in the
70s and 80s. His QTc was followed twice a day and did not show
any signs of prolongation. He was finally being discharged on
dofetilide for rate and rhythm control as he is now in normal
sinus rhythm. He will also go home on torsemide 60 mg p.o.
b.i.d. to maintain his dry weight. He has been instructed to
continue taking his glyburide , but not his metformin given his
poor creatinine clearance being discharged with a creatinine of
1.6 and the fact that he is on metformin. He will see his
primary care doctor and will either likely be started on low-dose
insulin or another oral hypoglycemic agent. He will follow up
with his primary care doctor and Dr. Pettinger for continued
transplant evaluation.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Include carvedilol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , darbepoetin 100 mcg
subcutaneous q. week , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. every other day ,
dofetilide 125 mcg p.o. b.i.d. , Vytorin one tab p.o. daily , iron
sulfate 325 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , potassium
40 mEq p.o. daily , lisinopril 10 mg p.o. daily , Protonix 40 mg
p.o. daily , torsemide 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Coumadin 2 mg p.o.
q.p.m.
FINAL ADDENDUM:
The patient will continue taking his Coumadin for goal INR of 2-3
and follow up at the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of Coumadin Clinic , in addition , he
received one unit of packed red blood cells for anemia of chronic
disease and was given IV iron therapy and will continue the
patient on oral iron replacement.
eScription document: 4-8582198 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: MANGANELLI , ADELINA
Attending: PETTINGER , DOUGLASS
Dictation ID 0588299
D: 3/9/06
T: 3/9/06