190913023 | PUO | 90499272 | | 541255 | 7/16/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/4/1993 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/20/1993
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: LEGIONNAIRES' DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 43 year old woman
with no significant past medical
history who presented with fevers , chills , sweats , shortness of
breath , pleuritic chest pain , cough inducing vomiting of white to
yellow fluid , myalgias , burning epigastric pain , and diarrhea all
over the last five days. The source was the patient via japanese
interpreter , the patient was a poor historian , and her old chart
was missing at the time of admission. She denied any cardiac or
pulmonary history though she did have an admission to the Pagham University Of in 2/10 for shortness of breath. Clinical
diagnosis was apparently flash pulmonary edema as she had a normal
admission chest X-Ray which later revealed mild pulmonary vascular
redistribution consistent with congestive heart failure. She was
ruled out for a myocardial infarction and had an exercise tolerance
test which was negative for ischemic disease. She says she has had
increasing dyspnea on exertion over the past six weeks with
substernal chest pain after climbing two flights of stairs.
Several weeks ago and again the day of admission , she has had
two-pillow orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. She was
well overall until five days ago when she started developing the
following symptoms: 1 ) "Bone pain" first in her hands and then
all over. 2 ) Fevers ( although she did not take her temperature ).
3 ) Chills. 4 ) Drenching sweats. 5 ) Anorexia. 6 ) Increasing
shortness of breath worsening over the week. 7 ) Pleuritic chest
pain worse with inspiration and laying on her left side. 8 ) Cough
and/or white vomitus ( one apparently induces the other but the
patient cannot distinguish which ). 9 ) Nose bleeds. 10 ) Neck
pain. 11 ) Sore throat. 12 ) Burning epigastric pain. 13 )
Abdominal bloating and diarrhea. 14 ) Black stools times one day.
15 ) Overall malaise. She denies hemoptysis , weight loss ,
photophobia , neck stiffness , runny nose , sneezing , radiation of
chest pain , dysuria , lower extremity edema , bright red blood per
rectum , or melena. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Negative for asthma ,
tuberculosis , or HIV risk factors. It is otherwise significant for
one episode of pulmonary edema of unclear etiology as noted above.
Her echo at that time was significant for a left ventricular
ejection fraction of 54% with increased left atrial size and mild
mitral regurgitation/aortic insufficiency. Her exercise tolerance
test was significant for not going nine minutes on a standard Bruce
protocol with a peak heart rate of 150 stopping secondary to
fatigue with blood pressure of 170/80 and no chest pain or ischemic
changes. CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Tylenol p.r.n. ALLERGIES: No
known drug allergies. FAMILY HISTORY: Father with hypertension in
his sixties , mother died of a vaginal cancer at a young age ,
daughter has asthma , and brother has hypertension. SOCIAL HISTORY:
She is separated , lives with three of five children , works as a
cleaning lady in various buildings in Ence Na A Chi Valepit , no tobacco , last
smoked at the age of 14 , and no alcohol or intravenous drug use.
She did have a history of exposure to typhus in her family
recently. REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: She had a weight gain of two pounds
over the past two months , her last period was during the week prior
to admission , and was shorter than usual.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient had a temperature of 100.8 , a
heart rate of 150 , blood pressure of 120/80 ,
respiratory rate of 30 to 35 , and O2 saturations of 93 to 96% on
three liters. She was mildly orthostatic on admission. GENERAL:
She was a tachypneic thai speaking woman in moderate respiratory
distress. HEENT: Remarkable for dry mucous membranes and a white
coating over her tongue but no erythema or exudate of her posterior
pharynx. NECK: Supple with tender submandibular shotty adenopathy
bilaterally. No jugular venous distention or thyromegaly. LUNGS:
Remarkable for diffuse crackles scattered throughout both lung
fields , louder in the mid and lower lung fields bilaterally , and no
egophony or dullness. HEART: Remarkable for tachycardia and
normal S1 and S2 without murmurs , rubs , or gallops. BACK:
Revealed mild tenderness to palpation at both costovertebral angles
and there was no spinal tenderness. ABDOMEN: Soft with moderate
tenderness to deep palpation in the epigastrium , there was no
rebound or guarding , she had normal bowel sounds , no
hepatosplenomegaly , no Murphy's sign , and no masses. EXTREMITIES:
No cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. SKIN: Without rash.
NEUROLOGICAL: Examination showed her to be alert and oriented
times three , cranial nerves II-XII were intact , and motor and
sensory examinations were intact. There were no cerebellar
findings and her reflexes were 1+ of the upper extremities and 0 at
the knees with toes downgoing bilaterally.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission , sodium was 137 , potassium
4.2 , chloride 102 , bicarbonate 24 , BUN 15 ,
creatinine 0.9 , and glucose 145. Her white blood cell count was
20.7 with 71 polys , 14 bands , 9 lymphocytes , 4 monocytes , and 2
metamyelocytes. Her hematocrit was 45% and her platelet count was
322 , 000. Her room air blood gas revealed a pO2 of 66 , O2
saturation of 94.1% , pH of 7.46 , pCO2 of 34 , and an HCO3 of 25.
EKG was remarkable for sinus tachycardia at 152 beats per minute
with flat T waves in her limb leads and V5 and V6 , there were no
acute ST or T wave changes. When compared with prior EKG from
2/10 , the rhythm was much faster but in sinus. Her chest X-Ray
was remarkable for diffuse interstitial lung disease , increased
compared with a prior chest X-Ray of 10/3 Her liver function
tests were unremarkable on admission.
HOSPITAL COURSE: After admission , the patient was started on
intravenous Bactrim and intravenous Erythromycin
in Legionella doses to cover her broadly for this interstitial
pneumonia. Sputum inductions were done for toluidine blue , gram
stain , and culture and sensitivity which were negative. An HIV
test was sent which was also negative making the diagnosis of PCP
very unlikely. She had Legionella antibody and urine antigens
sent. Although the urine antigens are pending , the Legionella
antibody came back positive at 1:256. At this titer , the diagnosis
of legionnaires' disease was made. Until this titer came back ,
however , the diagnosis was not as clear and the patient had a PPD
planted with anergy panel. This PPD was negative and the patient
was not anergic. Pulmonary consultation was obtaind to consider
bronchoscopy as the patient could not produce sputum for the first
several days of her admission. As she was improving , the decision
was made to hold off on bronchoscopy. A typhus antibody was sent
given her possible exposure to typhus and that is still pending
although unlikely to be the case given her improvement on Bactrim
and Erythromycin and the fact that she has a positive Legionella
titer. Her gastrointestinal symptoms initially were felt to be
probably gastrointestinal complaints related to Legionella
legionnaires' disease. Stool cultures were sent and eventually
came back negative and she was started on intravenous Pepcid later
switched to p.o. Pepcid. She was also vigorously hydrated for her
losses in her diarrhea. The cause of her marked sinus tachycardia
was unclear although it was probably secondary to stress. Her
heart rate eventually came down with fluids although she was not
markedly orthostatic on admission. With fluid repletion , her heart
rate did come down and subsequent EKG revealed that she was not in
AV flutter with a 2:1 block but indeed was in sinus tachycardia.
Over the subsequent days , her heart rate eventually normalized.
Her O2 saturations initially were in the low nineties with three
liters. With Erythromycin , her hypoxia markedly improved and by
the time of discharge , she was 98% on room air. As noted over the
subsequent days , she became afebrile with stable blood pressure and
improving respiratory rate and O2 saturations. This improvement ,
however , took at least two to three days before it became clear
that she was heading in the right direction. During her early
course , she started to have some abdominal distention with marked
discomfort in her belly. A nasogastric tube was placed with
suction and she was made NPO. Her amylase and lipase were normal.
Meanwhile , her white count did markedly improve and it appeared
that all of these symptoms were probably secondary to her primary
legionnaires' disease. Cold agglutinins eventually came back
negative and her Mycoplasma titers are pending. Subsequent chest
X-Ray revealed that patient's process was at least radiographically
stable although she was clinically better. As noted above , her
white count improved and she remained afebrile except for single
episode of low grade fevers on 1/3 immediately prior to
discharge. She was thus watched for an additional day and was
discharged afebrile feeling well. Her course was also remarkable
for an increase in her ALT to 100 from a normal baseline probably
on the basis of Bactrim toxicity. After her Legionella titers came
back as well as her HIV being negative , her Bactrim was stopped and
she was switched from intravenous to p.o. Erythromycin. She
tolerated the switch well without any complications. She received
a total of seven days of intravenous Erythromycin and was
discharged with a two week course of p.o. Erythromycin.
DISPOSITION: Patient will follow-up in Mi Lakeield Sonme Clinic in two weeks
for follow-up of her Legionella pneumonia. DISCHARGE
MEDICATIONS: Pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. times four weeks ,
Erythromycin 500 mg p.o. q.i.d. times two weeks , Tylenol 650 mg
p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. , and Maalox 30 cc p.o. q.6h. p.r.n.
Dictated By: DENISHA H. MCRORIE , M.D. MH9
Attending: MAXIMA M. LOEWE , M.D. FR5
CP609/0372
Batch: 8743 Index No. TBYPB53S5M D: 5/24/93
T: 1/26/93