967188139 | PUO | 89831429 | | 9505196 | 3/28/2005 12:00:00 AM | RENAL FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/1/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/15/2005
ATTENDING: LACKNER , JEANNETTE MD
ADMITTING DIAGNOSES:
1. Hypoxia.
2. Acute renal failure.
3. Congestive heart failure.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Hypoxia.
2. Acute renal failure.
3. Congestive heart failure.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Shortness of breath , ____ MS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
The patient is a 61-year-old female with end-stage renal disease ,
not yet on hemodialysis; hypertension; insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus , who is legally blind; hypothyroidism. The patient of
note had a recent AV fistula placed. The patient was admitted to
the Pagham University Of initially on 3/9/04 through
5/14/05 for hypoglycemic arrest , during at which time she was
resuscitated with full mental recovery. The patient was
subsequently discharged to the Griffcoo Nonster Hospital ,
and was readmitted on 9/16/05 through 10/10/05 for left toe
ulceration , which required operating room debridement , and
intravenous antibiotics , including vancomycin , levofloxacin and
Flagyl. The patient was subsequently transitioned to p.o.
clindamycin at the time of discharge , and discharged back to the
Futage Tervpa Ili Ycoast University Medical Center The patient subsequently
presented on 9/30/05 per the report of the HTH
The patient was noted to have intermittent confusion and hypoxias
to 85% on room air on the morning of admission. The patient was
sent to the Totin Hospital And Clinic emergency room where she was
found to be normotensive at 138/83 , with an O2 saturation of 88%
on room air , augmented to 100% on nonrebreather. Physical
examination at the time of admission was remarkable for bilateral
crackles , two-thirds of the way up bilaterally. Chest is
remarkable for vascular congestion , question of right lower lobe
infiltrate. Of note , laboratory values on admission were
remarkable for BUN of 18 , and the creatinine up of 54 , elevated
from prior creatinine reading on 10/10/05 of 2.7. Her brain
natriuretic peptide on admission was measured at 2200. The
patient was subsequently admitted to General Medical Service
under the attending physician , Dr. Jeannette Manie Lackner , for further
evaluation and management.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Remarkable for end-stage renal disease. The patient with the
right AV fistula in place , not yet on hemodialysis , hypertension ,
and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The patient is legally
blind , the patient with hypothyroidism , the patient with recent
right toe ulceration , requiring operating room debridement; the
patient with a history of hypoglycemia.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Include aspirin , atenolol , calcitriol , PhosLo , calcium carbonate ,
Colace , heparin , NPH , Regular Insulin sliding scale ,
levothyroxine , oxycodone p.r.n. , timolol , amlodipine , Dilantin ,
Protonix , clindamycin , Cozaar , and Lasix.
ALLERGIES ON ADMISSION:
Include penicillin and metolazone.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
Not significant. The patient was previously residing at the
Griffcoo Nonster Hospital
LABORATORY DATA:
Full laboratory panel on admission includes sodium of 133 ,
potassium of 5.4 , chloride of 103 , bicarbonate of 21 , BUN of 80 ,
elevated from 53 of several days prior; creatinine of 5.4 ,
elevated from 2.7 of several days prior; glucose of 43; white
count of 10.5; hematocrit of 25.4 , down from 28.9 of several days
prior; platelets of 315 , 000; INR of 1.5. Cardiac enzymes were
negative for any evidence of coronary insufficiency. Chest film
as mentioned previously demonstrated prominent bibasilar
pulmonary vasculature , mild cardiomegaly , and question of right
lower lobe infiltrate. EKG was unremarkable.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. Renal: The patient presented with acute and chronic renal
insufficiency. Prior creatinine measured at 2-3. At the time of
admission , the creatinine was 5.4. Peak creatinine was measured
at 6.0. The patient was seen by the Renal Consult Service for
further evaluation of his acute renal failure. The patient was
felt to have gadolinium-induced nephropathy given her prior
chronic renal insufficiency and recent MRA , which had been
obtained to evaluate for peripheral vascular disease. Over the
time of admission , the patient was felt to be significantly
volume overloaded secondary to this acute renal failure , with
patient's weight up approximately 50 pounds from her baseline
value , and given her chest x-ray consistent with acute pulmonary
congestion , the patient was started on a Lasix drip with Diuril
support with significant improvement in her volume status. The
patient diuresed significantly over the time of admission.
Admission weight was recorded at 129.9 kg. At the time of
discharge , the patient had diuresed down to a dry weight of 95.6
kg , felt to be her dry weight. The patient was subsequently
restarted on her outpatient dose of Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily.
Recommend further outpatient titration and Lasix dosing as
required to maintain her ins and outs at approximately even.
Additionally , the patient on a fluid-restricted diet of 2.5
liters per day. The patient to follow up with her outpatient
nephrologist at the Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital as per the discharge
instructions.
2. Cardiovascular: The patient with significant volume overload
secondary to acute renal failure. The patient was diuresed of
the hospital course as previously described. Recommend
outpatient evaluation as required.
3. Pulmonary: The patient with hypoxia on admission secondary
to acute pulmonary congestion. With significant diuresis , the
patient's hypoxia resolved. At the time of discharge , the
patient was on room air with O2 saturation greater than 92%. Of
note , the patient with occasional desaturation occurring at night
while sleeping , felt to be secondary to peripheral obstructive
sleep apnea. Recommend further outpatient evaluation and
supplemental oxygenation as required at night.
4. Heme: The patient with significant anemia secondary to both
iron deficiency and chronic renal insufficiency. The patient was
maintained on Epogen and iron supplementation. Additionally ,
given a significant bilateral lower extremity edema on admission
with hypoxia , concern for lower extremity deep venous thrombosis.
Lower extremity noninvasive ultrasound is negative for any
evidence of clot.
5. Endocrine: The patient with significant hypothyroidism ,
maintained on Levoxyl. Recommend outpatient evaluation as
required. Additionally , the patient with a history of
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , maintained on NPH b.i.d.
with Regular Insulin sliding scale supplementation. At the time
of discharge , the patient's NPH was at 12 units subcutaneous
b.i.d. with Regular Insulin sliding scale supplementation q.a.c.
at bedtime. Recommend titration as required to an A1c less than
7.5. Of note , the patient with significant hypoglycemia in the
past , particularly in the setting of infection or low p.o.
intake , so we would recommend caution.
6. Prophylaxis: The patient was on subcutaneous heparin 5000
units t.i.d. for DVT prophylaxis in addition to Protonix 40 mg.
7. Musculoskeletal: Recommend physical therapy rehabilitation
as tolerated.
8. Code status: The patient adamantly DNR/DNI per her own
wishes.
9. Infectious disease: The patient noted to have persistent
diarrhea with minor abdominal pain at the time of admission. C.
diff colitis was found to be positive. The patient was therefore
treated with two-week course of p.o. Flagyl 500 mg q.8h. x14
days , and given concern initially for right lower lobe pneumonia ,
the patient was treated with a 14-course of levofloxacin ,
titrated to her renal function. At the time of discharge , the
patient was afebrile. Vital signs were stable. The patient was
tolerating food and physical therapy at baseline level. The
patient to be transferred back to the Griffcoo Nonster Hospital for further physical therapy rehabilitation.
FOLLOW UP:
The patient to follow up with her primary care physician , Dr.
Bench at the KAAH T Clinic. In addition , the patient is
scheduled for follow-up appointment with KAAH Nephrology , Dr.
Caroyln Reidherd , scheduled for 10/3/05 at 11 a.m.
eScription document: 4-3729600 EMS
Dictated By: GORGLIONE , JEANNETTE
Attending: LACKNER , JEANNETTE
Dictation ID 0970970
D: 8/29/05
T: 8/29/05