748718858 | PUO | 63349134 | | 802967 | 2/14/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/11/1994 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/29/1994
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 78-year-old male
without significant past medical
history who presented to Norap Valley Hospital with chest pain , ruled
in for an acute myocardial infarction and received thrombolysis.
The patient had persistent chest pain and was transferred to the
Pagham University Of for further evaluation. Cardiac risk
factors include no family history , no diabetes , no
hypercholesterolemia , very distant smoking history , male , and no
hypertension. The patient developed 6/10 substernal chest pain
radiating to his left arm , associated with nausea and shortness of
breath while he was sitting in his car on the morning of admission.
An hour later , he reached Norap Valley Hospital where his vital signs
revealed a blood pressure of 170/90 , heart rate was 85 , lungs were
clear to auscultation and an EKG which showed anterior ST
elevations with peak T waves. He was treated with front loaded
TPA , IV Heparin , IV Nitroglycerin , aspirin , Lopressor , but
continued to have substernal chest pain and ST elevations. He was
treated with Morphine and managed to sleep intermittently but every
time woke up with persistent pain. An echocardiogram performed at
the Norap Valley Hospital revealed a normal ejection fraction ,
inferior , posterior and septal hypokinesis. Given his persistent
chest discomfort , he was transferred to the Pagham University Of for post-thrombolysis , angioplasty.
The patient went directly to cardiac catheterization which revealed
the following; he had a right dominant system with two serial 90%
stenosis in the mid LAD , no abnormalities in the RCA , or left
circumflex artery , hemodynamics revealed an LVEDP of 14. LV gram
revealed apical hypokinesis with otherwise normal left ventricular
size , and function , right after that he underwent angioplasty of
his left anterior descending artery with successful results
( stenosis 90% down to 30 and 20% respectively ). Of note , he did
have TIMI grade 2 to 3 flow prior to angioplasty. The patient was
then transferred to the CCU without chest pain. PAST MEDICAL
HISTORY: This is notable for benign prostatic hypertrophy , status
post TURP , he is also status post an appendectomy. HABITS: The
patient is an x-smoker with a 48 pack year history , quite 30 years
ago. He drinks alcohol socially. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: At
the time of admission , the patient was on no medications at home ,
however , medications on transfer were; Lopressor 50 mg po bid ,
aspirin 160 po q d , IV Nitroglycerin at 50 micrograms an hour ,
Heparin at 1000 units an hour. ALLERGIES: The patient has no
known drug allergies. FAMILY HISTORY: There is no known coronary
artery disease. SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient use to work in
construction , he lives with his wife and has two children. His
granddaughter is a nurse at Pagham University Of .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , the patient was an elderly
male , sleepy , no apparent distress. His
blood pressure was 110/80 , heart rate was 62 , respiratory rate was
18. 93% oxygen saturation on six liters. The HEENT examination
showed extraocular movements were intact , pupils equal , round and
reactive to light and accommodation , oropharynx was benign. Neck
was supple without lymphadenopathy. There was no thyromegaly.
Chest was clear to auscultation. Cardiac carotids were 2+ without
bruits. There was a regular rate and rhythm , S1 , S2 , there was a
soft S4. There was no S3 , no murmurs. Abdomen soft with good
bowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly. Rectal was guaiac negative at
Norap Valley Hospital . The patient's extremities showed no edema ,
pedal pulses were intact bilaterally. Right femoral sheath in
place.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission , the patient's potassium was 3.8 ,
creatinine was 1.2 , creatinine kinase 960 with 99
MBs , white count was 9 , hematocrit 34.3 , PT and PTT was greater
than 110. EKG revealed normal sinus rhythm at 80 , left axis
deviation , negative 35 , first degree heart block , 2 mm ST
elevations in V2 to 3 , Q waves in V1 to 5 , and small inferior Q
waves. Chest x-ray revealed bilateral low lung volume with mild
pulmonary edema. His cholesterol was 173.
HOSPITAL COURSE: In summary , this is a 78-year-old man who is
status post an acute myocardial infarction treated
with front loaded TPA with persistent chest pain and ST elevations
now status post acute angioplasty of his LAD , admitted to the CCU
for further management. He was continued on IV Heparin and IV
Nitroglycerin , Lopressor , and aspirin. The patient was pain free
following angioplasty and his EKG post-angioplasty , showed
improvement in his anterior ST segments with evolution consistent
with an anterior myocardial infarction. The patient's post-MI
course was relatively uncomplicated with a peak CK of 960 , with 99
MBs ( with which he presented on admission ). By hospital day two ,
he had a CK of 336 , and 19 MBs. The patient was continued on IV
Nitroglycerin for 48 hours and was weaned to Nitropaste and
continued on IV Heparin for a total of five days. The patient was
also diuresed gently and within a few days had good oxygenation on
room air. The patient had a submaximal ETT MIBI prior to discharge
on hospital day seven , and went 9 minutes on a modified Bruce
without chest pain or dyspnea. The patient's maximal heart rate
was 120 , and maximal blood pressure was 180. EKG showed
normalization of his T-waves but no other diagnostic changes
consistent with ischemia. MIBI images revealed very mild
reversible ischemia in the apex , and apical portion of the inferior
wall. The patient will be discharged on a cardiac regimen which
includes Lopressor , aspirin , Captopril which was initiated a few
days prior to discharge , he will also be given sublingual
Nitroglycerin prn. The patient is scheduled to follow up with a
full Bruce ETT MIBI on 29 of November , to complete his risk ratification.
He is also scheduled for an echocardiogram the same day. The
patient will follow-up with Dr. Buck Moose in Cardiology at the
Pagham University Of and Dr. Vanhauen at Norap Valley Hospital .
Of note , the patient complained of significant dysphagia while
lying supine status post cardiac catheterization and upon more
complete history it became apparent that he has had dysphagia for
quite some time. The patient denied significant weight loss but
has had trouble with both solids and liquids. A video swallow was
obtained which revealed no aspiration and normal swallowing
mechanism and a barium swallow was noted for significant esophageal
dismotility and tertiary contractions. These results have been
communicated to his primary physician ( Dr. Vanhauen who will follow ).
DISPOSITION: CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge ,
the patient was stable. MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
At the time of discharge , the patient was on Lopressor 50 mg qid ,
aspirin 325 mg q d , Captopril 6.25 mg tid , sublingual Nitroglycerin
prn.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. ACUTE ANTERIOR MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION
2. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE
3. ESOPHAGEAL DISMOTILITY
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: 1. Cardiac catheterization , angioplasty.
Dictated By: LATKO
Attending: DANILLE LACY HARTSELL , M.D. BV3
WA620/8148
Batch: 3836 Index No. C1ZM8E8283 D: 7/10/94
T: 3/19/94
CC: 1. PENNIE LOERWALD , M.D. Ville
Cinponcecean Salt Na