183239984 | PUO | 43563568 | | 405814 | 7/23/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/23/1991 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 11/2/1991
DIAGNOSIS: 1 )CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
2 )ADULT ONSET DIABETES MELLITUS.
3 )STATUS POST CORONARY ARTERY BYPASS GRAFTING.
4 )HYPERTENSION.
5 )STATUS POST TOTAL ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY AND
BILATERAL SALPINGO OOPHORECTOMY.
OPERATION: Reoperation coronary artery bypass grafting by Dr.
Brooke Lemmen on 11 of October .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 54-year-old black
woman who is status post coronary
artery bypass grafting approximately two years ago by Dr. Colasamte
who had developed recurrent substernal chest pain approximately
four months after her bypass surgery. The patient underwent
exercise treadmill testing which showed non-diagnostic ST segment
changes. However , thallium studies revealed decreased perfusion to
the apex , superior portion of the septum as well as the
anterolateral wall. There was reperfusion of the high septal and
anterolateral wall. The patient then proceeded to cardiac
catheterization which revealed 100% stenosis of her previous graft.
Additionally there was 100% mid stenosis of the right coronary
artery , 80% stenosis of the left anterior descending , 90% mid
stenosis of the first diagonal , and 100% stenosis of the circumflex
after the first obtuse marginal. There was anterior hypokinesis as
well as apical and inferior akinesis. There was severely decreased
left ventricular function. The pulmonary pressures were fairly
unremarkable. Thus , the patient presented for reop coronary artery
bypass grafting.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the Operating Room on
11 of October .  Under general endotracheal anesthesia
coronary artery bypass grafting times three was performed. The
right internal mammary artery was grafted to the first diagonal as
well as saphenous vein graft to the left anterior descending , the
old obtuse marginal graft , and the second diagonal. The patient
was found to have dense cardiac adhesions. Her old right coronary
artery graft was occluded and the old obtuse marginal graft was
tightly stenotic at the origin. The left internal mammary artery
was subtotally occluded distally. The patient spontaneously
defibrillated and demonstrated modestly decreased left ventricular
function. The patient was taken to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit
in stable rhythm with stable vital signs. Postoperatively the
patient's course was thoroughly unremarkable. The patient required
sodium Nitroprusside in the immediate postoperative period. There
was no evidence of postoperative myocardial infarction. The
patient was successfully extubated on the second postoperative day
and her mediastinal and pleural tubes were also pulled without
significant incident. The patient's diuresis was initiated and
tolerated well. The rest of the patient's postoperative course was
unremarkable. She remained in normal sinus rhythm without any
evidence of arrhythmia. She was essentially afebrile and her
wounds were all healing well. However , on chest x-ray it was
demonstrated that the patient had right lower lobe collapse.
Because of her afebrile state and good oxygenation on room air the
patient was not bronch'd in order to re-expand her right lower
lobe. At the time of dictation , one day prior to proposed
discharge the patient's chest x-ray showed some improved aeration
of that lower lobe. Thus , the patient will likely be discharged on
18 of May .
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 50 mg po q d , baby
aspirin one po q d , Diabinese 500 mg po q d , iron
sulfate 325 mg po tid , Colace , Percocet. The patient will be
discharged to home. FOLLOW-UP: She will follow-up with Dr.
Brooke Lemmen in four to five weeks and with private medical
doctor and cardiologist in one to two weeks. The patient will also
have visiting nurse come in to check on her in the immediate
postoperative period.
DT729/6812
BROOKE D. LEMMEN , M.D. CL7 D: 7/2/91
Batch: 0585 Report: J6220F67 T: 4/19/91
Dictated By: SALVATORE REISLING , M.D. SZ97