069368881 | PUO | 43005496 | | 5325596 | 10/20/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/20/2003 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: ROSSIE MANKOSKI M.D.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS:
Dilated cardiomyopathy.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES:
Right foot osteomylitis , left calf ulcer , hypertension ,
peripheral vascular disease , nonsustained VT , gout , occipital
CVA , atrial fibrillation , left vocal cord paralysis , and renal
failure.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
The patient is a 54-year-old man with nonischemic dilated
cardiomyopathy who presents with weight gain , weakness , and
azotemia. The patient has known cardiomyopathy thought to be
secondary to alcohol with incomplete cardiology follow up.
Cardiac catheterization performed in 1998 showed a right atrial
pressure of 16 , PA pressure 49 of 28 , pulmonary capillary wedge
pressure of 26 , cardiac output of 4 , cardiac stress done in 2002 ,
he lasted 5 minutes 30 seconds did not read anaerobic threshold
with a ZO2 of 11.1. The patient was admitted in February 2003 with
decompensated heart failure. An echo showed LV EDD of 65 and
ejection fraction of 25% with moderate MR and severe TR treated
with dobutamine , seretide , and diuretics with good effect.
Course complicated by left leg cellulitis and worsening renal
functioning on ACE inhibitor. Two weeks prior to presentation ,
the patient was seen in clinic with fluid retention , diuretics
were increased , then had worsening renal function , so diuretics
was held and now presented with fatigue , leg edema , and draining
foot wound.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Hypertension , diabetes , peripheral vasculare disease , status post
transmetatarsal amputations , osteomyelitis , and VT. The patient
declined ICD , gout , occipital CVA , and atrial fibrillation.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Digoxin 0.125 mg q.o.d. , Imdur 30 mg q.d. , hydralazine 25 mg
t.i.d. , torsemide was being held , Coumadin 1 mg q.d. , carvedilol
3.125 mg b.i.d. , allopurinol 100 mg q.d. , Glucophage , and
glyburide.
FAMILY HISTORY:
Father with coronary artery disease in 80s.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
He currently lives with a roommate. Family is somewhat strange ,
although recently more involved with the patient. No tobacco use
and moderate alcohol consumption per patient.
ALLERGIES:
No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
A tired older man lying at 30 degrees with profound fatigue.
Blood pressure 84/60 , pulse 100 and regular , weight 102.4 kg , and
temperature 99.4. Mild pallor. No scleral icterus. JVP to the
angle of jaw. Coarse breath sounds bilaterally without wheeze.
Cardiac irregular and soft systolic murmur at the left sternal
border. No S3 , gallop , or rub. Abdomen reveals decreased bowel
sounds. Liver - four fingerbreadths below right costal margin ,
nonpulsatile. No guarding or rebound. Extremities: Warm with 3+
edema to thighs.
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:
Sodium 129 , potassium 4.2 , BUN 133 , creatinine 1.2 , hematocrit
31.9 , white blood cell count 15.8 with 89% polys , 8 bands , and
INR 4.6 , albumin 2.7 and total bilirubin 3.4 , and normal
transaminases. ECG showed atrial fibrillation at 90 per minute ,
low voltage , poor R-wave progression with QRS widening , and
nonspecific T-wave abnormality.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was admitted to Cardiology Service for continued
management of his volume overload , dilated cardiomyopathy , and
lower extremity infections. This hospital course will be
summarized briefly by dates.
1. On 11/21/03 , the patient was found to have progression of his
right lower extremity infection and was taken to the OR for
debridement.
2. On 10/8/03 , Diuril was added to his regimen and his
creatinine was noted to increase from 2.6 to 3.6 and diuretics
were subsequently held.
3. On 6/25/03 , the patient retuned to the OR for revision of
right wound infection and underwent a further transmetatarsal
amputation.
4. On 5/5/03 , the patient noted nausea , fatigue , and malaise
coincident with 20-beat run of VT followed by syncope in the
stetting of dobutamine. The VT terminated spontaneously. The
patient was loaded on amiodarone , unfortunately still required
low dose dobutamine to maintain his cardiac output.
5. On 11/2/03 , the patient returned to the OR for debridement
and was noted to be hypotensive with baseline systolic blood
pressures of 80s going to 60s over palp with decrease urine
output. He was transferred to the CCU briefly and did well on
ionotropes and diuretics. He was transferred back to the floor
and continued to have decrease urine output on maximal diuretic
doses and ionotropes.
6. On 6/5/03 , the renal surgery recommended that the dobutamine
be stopped in order to enhance renal perfusion and Lasix be
increased to 80 mg per hour. The patient promptly developed
cardiogenic shock with discontinuation of dobutamine and was
again transferred to the CCU with systolic blood pressures in the
60s. He was ashen and cold. Subsequently , he has required
dobutamine between 1 and 2.5 mcg/kg/minute to maintain his
cardiac output as well as CVVH for volume management. He has
tolerated the FL rates between 15 and 200.
7. On 4/28/03 , the patient noted hoarseness. Otolaryngology
evaluation demonstrated paralyzed left vocal cords thought to be
secondary to left atrial enlargement or potentially the placement
of a left IJ catheter.
8. On 5/6/03 , a tunneled catheter was placed for hemodialysis
and CVVH access with plan initiation of hemodialysis.
9. On 10/30/03 , he had first course of hemodialysis and he
tolerated this procedure well. A PICC line was placed. The
patient was given a pneumococcal vaccine.
10. Cardiovascular:
a. Pump: The patient with advanced dilated cardiomyopathy with
poor overall prognosis , was admitted for aggressive diuresis in
order to improve his position on the ?? ?? curve. This was
performed by CVVH and is now being transitioned to hemodialysis.
He has beyond less invasive measures such as digoxin and ACE
inhibitors , and he is now dobutamine dependent.
b. Ischemia: The patient without any history of ischemic heart
disease and no symptoms suggestive of any incorporate lesions.
c. Rhythm: Chronic AF and occasional ectopy and VT on
dobutamine , currently loaded on amiodarone without any further
events.
11. Infectious Disease: The patient with chronic osteomylitis ,
currently in a six-week course of ceftazidime , vancomycin ,
Flagyl , and Diflucan for complicated osteomyelitis , end date is
on 9/27/03. He was given pneumococcal vaccine. He is
up-to-date on his flu vaccine.
12. Renal: The patient has had progressive renal failure likely
secondary to low flow to the kidneys. This has been exacerbated
by ACE inhibitors in the past. In addition , increasing doses of
diuretics have been ineffective that the patient is able to
obtain increased amounts of cardiac output. As he comes on
strongly through , he may regain some renal function , however , it
is predicted that he will require hemodialysis for remainder of
the life. He has tolerated this. A tunneled catheter was placed
for access on 10/20/03.
13. Vascular: The patient with peripheral vascular disease now
status post transmetatarsal amputation. He remains with a open
wound in his left foot and a calf ulcer. The patient is planned
to be evaluated by Plastic Surgery prior to discharge for final
plans whether a flap or healing by secondary retention.
14. Psychiatry: The patient is depressed with frequent periods
of anxiety , exceedingly fearful of dying , and unable to sleep
with light off or with drapes pole secondary to believe that if
he falls asleep , he will no longer wake up. He was seen by
Psychiatry , who suggested starting low dose of Zyprexa in the
evening. This has greatly improved his mood and he is doing well
from this regard.
15. Endocrine: The patient failed a course of stimulation test
and was started on hydrocortisone. When this was tapered down ,
he had some periods of hypotension and this was increased again.
He remains on maintenance doses of hydrocortisone. Etiology of
his adrenal insufficieny is unclear. Additionally , the patient
has diabetes. He was on oral hypoglycemic as an outpatient ,
however , now this renal function , he has been transitioned over
to insulin with his standing doses of Lantus with a lispro
sliding scale.
16. FEN: The patient was started on TPN for quite severe
malnutrition. He now has increasing albumin with increased
appetite , and he is tolerating more food. He has been placed on
nectar thick liquids for secondary to left vocal cord paralysis
and visualized aspiration on barium swallow by ENT.
DISPOSITION:
The patient currently is stable.
PLAN:
At this point , would be discharge with home dobutamine and
frequent and careful follow up by his primary cardiologist Dr.
Schafer
eScription document: 8-8046944 EMS
Dictated By: INNARELLI , DONNETTE
Attending: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE
Dictation ID 4966608
D: 10/30/03
T: 8/25/03