593109802 | PUO | 52570701 | | 115127 | 4/24/1997 12:00:00 AM | UNSTABLE ANGINA | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 4/26/1997 Report Status: Unsigned
Discharge Date: 5/23/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Four vessel coronary artery bypass graft.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 61 year old woman
with a history of chronic renal
failure , hypertension , diabetes mellitus and morbid obesity with a
long history of coronary artery disease and angina. The patient
presented to the hospital with recurrent chest tightness with
radiation to her left arm associated with shortness of breath ,
nausea , vomiting and headache. The patient had similar episodes in
the same prior to presentation. These are not associated with
exercise which was new for her.
In the emergency room the patient received aspirin and nitro-paste
along with beta blockers. Her EKG at that time demonstrated 2 to 3
mm ST depressions in her lateral leads. CK at that time was 634
with an MB of 30. Her troponin I came back at 12.8. The patient
was admitted at that time with a diagnosis of nonQ-wave myocardial
infarction.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
Hypertension. Morbid obesity. Cataract
surgery. Coronary artery disease. Angina ( As above ).
MEDICATIONS: Hytrin 20 mg q.h.s. , Humulin NPH 175 mg q. a.m. ,
45 q. p.m. , Regular 45 q. a.m. , 10 q. p.m. ,
lisinopril 40 mg q.d. , Micronase 10 mg b.i.d. , Verapamil SR 240 mg
b.i.d.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was a morbidly obese woman in no
apparent distress. Blood pressure 142/74 ,
pulse 78 , respiratory rate 20 , temperature 99.9 , sats are 97% on
four liters. HEAD , EYES , EARS , NOSE AND THROAT: No dental
pathology. Oropharynx is clear. Sclerae are anicteric. Neck -
Supple with full range of motion. There is no jugular venous
distention. No carotid bruits. Cardiac - Revealed a regular rate
and rhythm , normal S1 and S2 without murmurs , rubs or gallops.
Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally with minimal crackles
at the bases. Abdomen - Benign with positive bowel sounds and no
masses identified. Extremities - Without edema and without venous
varicosities. Distal pulses were 2+ bilaterally. Neurological -
Nonfocal. Rectal - Guaiac negative.
LABORATORY DATA: Admission - Significant for a glucose elevated
at 211 , but otherwise normal.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Cardiology
Service and ruled in for nonQ-wave myocardial
infarction. She underwent cardiac catheterization 7 of February where a
100% proximal dominant circumflex artery stenosis was noted along
with 60% proximal LAD and 80% RCA stenosis.
The patient underwent PCA of her circumflex which at that time was
not successful. Postoperatively she did well , but had persistent
chest pain. She did underwent cardiac catheterization 27 of June
which revealed 40% residual stenosis of the dominant left
circumflex. At that time , coronary steps were placed. The patient
however , continued to experience substernal chest pain and dyspnea
over the ensuing days. The patient also experienced flash
pulmonary edema and was transferred to the Coronary Care Unit. At
that time it was decided that her attempts at angioplasty were
unsuccessful. She was evaluated for coronary artery bypass
grafting.
She was taken to the operating room on 3 of September where she underwent
four vessel bypass ( LIMA to LAD , saphenous vein graft to R1 and
then jumped to OM and lastly saphenous vein graft to PDA ). She
tolerated this procedure well and was transferred to the Cardiac
Intensive Care Unit. She was maintained on triple antibiotics to
cover the potential sequela of a superficial cordis site skin
infection. Sputum sent from postoperative day #1 demonstrated
Pseudomonas in her sputum. Chest x-ray showed the evolution of a
right basilar consolidation. She was placed on ofloxacin and
piperacillin to cover the Pseudomonas. She was slow to extubate
but ultimately did on 18 of May The rest of her postoperative course
was significant for steady wean of her oxygen requirement with
concomitant aggressive diuresis. She was covered with ofloxacin
and piperacillin throughout the rest of her hospital course with
resolution of her right lower lobe pneumonia demonstrated on chest
x-ray. She experienced no further substernal chest pain during her
hospitalization.
In the immediate postoperative period , she did experience some
confusion but this resolved spontaneously and her neurological exam
was completely nonfocal.
The patient was evaluated by physical therapy and it was their
assessment that she was somewhat unable and given her living
situation , she was recommended for rehabilitation.
Additionally , her leg wounds and her chest wound have continued to
drain somewhat throughout the hospital course. There is no
apparent evidence of significant infection in either site. If some
minor infection were to develop , it should be covered adequately
with the ofloxacin or piperacillin that she is currently taking.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , insulin NPH 60
units in the morning , 20 units in the evening , lisinopril 10 mg
q.d. , Percocet 1-2 tabs p.o. q3-4h , Verapamil 80 mg t.i.d. ,
piperacillin 3 grams IV q4h for an additional four days from the
time of discharge. Ofloxacin 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. for an additional
four days , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Albuterol inhalers two
puffs t.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing.
DIET: Low fat ADA diet , 1800 calories a day.
ACTIVITIES: As tolerated.
FOLLOW-UP: Dr. Colasamte in four weeks , cardiologist in one week.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
DISPOSITION: To rehabilitation.
Dictated By: LORRETTA P. CRIDGE , M.D. UO87
Attending: ISABELLE E. COLASAMTE , M.D. CL7
RQ854/1636
Batch: 6247 Index No. LDWV2Q42OI D: 6/9/97
T: 6/9/97