272505350 | PUO | 00947633 | | 310665 | 3/27/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/30/1992 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 7/28/1992
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: APPENDICITIS.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: GRAVES' DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 35-year-old woman
with a history of Graves' disease and
known cholelithiasis who presented to the Pagham University Of Emergency Room with a 12 hour history of increasing right
upper quadrant and right lower quadrant abdominal pain , nausea ,
vomiting and a fever. She had one normal bowel movement on the day
of admission. She denied pyuria , anorexia. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Graves' disease. PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: None. MEDICATIONS: On
admission included , 10 mg po b.i.d.; Inderal , 40 mg po
b.i.d. ALLERGIES: NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES. HABITS: Negative
smoking history. No alcohol intake.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission revealed an ill appearing
female in moderate distress. Lungs were
clear to auscultation bilaterally. Cardiac exam revealed a regular
rate and rhythm. Abdomen was soft , nondistended , right lower
quadrant and right upper quadrant tenderness , lower greater than
upper , positive bowel sounds , negative Murphy's sign. No shake or
peritoneal signs. Rectal exam revealed normal tone , no masses ,
nontender , no stool in vault.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission included a white blood cell
count of 14.33. Hematocrit 36.3. Urinalysis
revealed 15-20 red cells.
PROCEDURES: EXPLORATORY LAPAROTOMY.
APPENDECTOMY.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the floor. There ,
she had a temperature of 102.2 and a pulse of
152. She continued to experience right upper and right lower
quadrant pain , lower greater than upper. Because of a known
cholelithiasis , differential of her right sided abdominal pain
included , primarily , cholecystitis and appendicitis. She thus
underwent abdominal ultrasound. Ultrasound revealed right upper
quadrant gallbladder with mildly thickened walls , gallstones , but
no common duct dilatation or pericholecystic fluid. The right
lower quadrant revealed thickened small bowel walls but peristalsis
was also identifiable. Using the ultrasound probe , the right lower
quadrant was certainly more tender than the right upper quadrant.
On serial examinations , her abdominal pain and tenderness became
gradually worse and her temperature continued to remain high
spiking to 101 to 102. She was thus brought to the Operating Room
for an exploratory laparotomy. A paramedian incision was made and
appendicitis noted. The gallbladder appeared grossly normal. She
tolerated the procedure well without any complications.
Postoperatively , she continued to have high temperature spiking
over 103 degrees. She also became tachycardic to approximately
150. Because she had not been taking her medications for a few
days preoperatively as well as because she had tremor ,
hyperreflexia , fever , and tachycardia she was suspected to be
thyrotoxic. Of note , she had been in atrial fibrillation one month
prior to admission. Endocrinology consult was obtained and based
on their recommendations , she was restarted on , 15 mg po q
six hours; Inderal , 40 mg po q six hours; SSKI , one-third of 1 cc
po t.i.d. Thyroid function tests were sent. She gradually
defervesced. Her heart rate diminished and her ambulation was
rapidly advanced. Her wound was noted to be slightly erythematous
and she was thus started on Velosef.
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS: On discharge included Percocet , one
to two tablets po q four hours p.r.n.; Inderal , 40 mg
po q six hours; SSKI , one-third cc po t.i.d.; , 10 mg po
t.i.d.; Velosef , 500 mg po q.i.d. times seven days.
EO799/32 -2
SEPTEMBER PETRETTI , M.D. HF8 D: 7/25/92
Batch: 5007 Report: B4682C86 T: 11/14/92
Dictated By: ROSSIE MANKOSKI , M.D.