761622641 | PUO | 80826409 | | 239600 | 5/13/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/12/1995 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 11/9/1995
Service is GYN oncology.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 57 year old T3 , P3 ,
status post TAH , BSO , on April , for a left complex pelvic mass which was consistent with a
left ovarian adenofibroma benign , who presents now with abdominal
pain , nausea and vomiting , since 12:30 a.m. The patient doing well
at home until 12:30 a.m. on the day of admission. She was
tolerating a regular diet and taking good p.o.'s , last meal 7 to 8
p.m. at which time she had normal bowel movement , was passing gas.
Went to sleep , awoke at 3:30 vomiting food with abdominal pain , no
urinary symptoms , no fever. The patient has had abdominal since at
least once a day for the last week , no melena , no bright red blood
per rectum. No hematemesis.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for
1. Polymyositis with vasculitis , steroid
dependent.
2. Insulin dependent diabetes.
3. Hypertension.
4. History of Graves' disease on no
medications.
5. Lichen simplex chronicus.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: 1. Deltoid muscle biopsy.
2. TAH , BSO as above.
3. Direct laryngoscopy.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 60 units of NPH q a.m. , 10 units of NPH
q p.m. , Procardia XL 60 mg. q d , Axid
150 mg. bid , Prednisone 10 mg. p.o. q d , as well as Bactrim Double
Strength one bid.
ALLERGIES: Include Ansaid and aspirin , the patient reports
a rash.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , temperature was 99 , blood
pressure of 160/80 , heart rate was in the
90's , respiratory rate of 18. Her lungs were clear bilaterally.
The heart exam was regular rate and rhythm. No murmurs , rubs or
gallops. Abdomen was diffusely tender to deep palpation , however ,
soft active bowel sounds , no rebound , no peritoneal findings. Well
healed midline incision , no drainage , no erythema. Extremities are
nontender without edema.
LABS ON ADMISSION: Included a sodium of 145 , a K of 4.5 , chloride
of 99 , bicarb of 31 , and BUN and creatinine of
9/0.7 and a glucose of 103 , white count of 10.9 , with platelet
count of 508 and a hematocrit of 41.6. Her UA showed 5 to 10 white
cells , 3 to 7 red cells and 1 + grams. KUB showed a large amount
of stool in the large bowel , no free air , a few air fluid levels ,
overall picture was not consistent with small bowel obstruction.
The patient was admitted with a question of gastroenteritis vs.
partial small bowel obstruction , which would be early. She was
admitted and kept NPO for bowel rash to receive the IV fluids. No
NG tube was placed. On hospital day one , the patient was
complaining of abdominal crampiness and feeling nauseated. She had
a small amount of emesis. She had spiked a temperature of 101.2.
This was felt to still either be consistent with the flu , or ileus.
A fever work up was then begun. She had blood cultures that were
sent , repeat KUB and a repeat CBC. By the afternoon , the patient
was feeling a little bit better.
Her CBC that was drawn early in the morning , had a white count of
10.38 , a hematocrit of 38.4 , and a platelet count of 422. She had
a normal amylase at 57 , normal lipase at 15 , normal LFT's with an
ALT of 18 , ASC of 20 , and LVH of 290 and alk. phos. of 81 and total
and direct bilirubin of .3 and .2. Her SMA 7 showed the sodium of
138 and a K of 4.3. Her BUN and creatinine of 8/.8 , bicarb of 28
and a glucose of 107. Her KUB and upright that was repeated still
showed a large amount of stool in the large bowel , few air fluid
levels but no change from the earlier exam.
On hospital day three , the patient's fever curve had improved. The
cultures that were previously sent were no growth so far and these
remained negative throughout the course of the hospitalization. She
was tolerating clears over the course of the morning. However ,
later on in the day , her pain returned , mainly in the right upper
quadrant , right lower quadrant. At this point , the decision was
made to check a CT scan. Of note , when the patient was admitted and
had a temperature spike , she was placed on stress post steroids
given her history of Prednisone. This was maintained throughout
her hospitalization.
Her CT scan showed that there was contrast seen through the small
bowel and colon to the rectum. There was a small section of small
bowel with wall thickening at the paraumbilical level with fluid
around it and no absence of small bowel obstruction. No edema in
the colon , with a small amount of free fluid around the liver and
the pericolic gutters. This raised concern although these findings
could be consistent with small bowl obstruction , to erase concern
about ischemia. However , the patient's exam had improved
remarkably by the morning of the 22 of June Her abdomen was soft , with
active bowel sounds and the patient was only mildly tender. Given
that the exam was not quite consistent with the CT readings , other
things were considered in the differential. Of note , the patient
had a couple of loose stools and stool cultures were sent. He does
have a history of salmonella in the past. These cultures were
negative and included SSYC and C. diff.
The concern was raised on the 24 of June that if this was not consistent
with ischemic bowel , that perhaps this was an exacerbation of her
vasculitis and could represent vasculitic changes in her SMA
circulation which had improved because the patient was placed on
stress post steroids. An angiogram was performed and the findings
were as followed: The aortoiliac artery and SMA were normal in
appearance. There was no evidence of microaneurysm , narrowing or
dilation. Because of these findings , it was felt that this was
not a picture consistent with vasculitis. She was switched from
her Hydrocortisone to her usual Prednisone dose of 10 mg. q d on
the 5 of August , the day prior to discharge.
The patient did well overnight , tolerated clears in the morning ,
and by lunch time , was able to eat a full diet. Of note , the
patient the night prior to discharge , had a complaint of some calf
pain which was transient in nature. However , although her exam was
unremarkable , lower extremity noninvasives were done and these were
negative. So the patient is being discharged home in good
condition. She is tolerating a regular diet.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Include Insulin , Procardia XL 60 mg. q
d , Axid 150 mg. bid , Prednisone 10 mg.
q d.
Dictated By: SHANDA BARIS , M.D. BG4
Attending: GERRI S. JIAU , M.D. VR99
MK658/3064
Batch: 0427 Index No. 7EWAVL912E D: 4/5/95
T: 1/19/95