957523618 | PUO | 16241440 | | 453063 | 10/17/1997 12:00:00 AM | AVASCULAR NECROSIS RT. HIP | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/16/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 6/1/1997
FINAL DIAGNOSIS: ( 1 ) OSTEONECROSIS OF RIGHT HIP
( 2 ) PAROXYSMAL SUPRAVENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA
PROCEDURE: RIGHT TOTAL HIP REPLACEMENT
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 73 year old female
who developed new onset of right sided
hip pain approximately four months ago. She is now severely
limited in her ambulation , as well as activities of daily living ,
secondary to her right hip pain. On radiographs she was
demonstrated to have osteonecrosis of the right hip. There is no
history of steroid or steroid boluses or alcohol use.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Degenerative joint disease bilateral hands.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Status post varicose vein stripping and
bilateral cataract surgery.
MEDICATIONS: Captopril 25 mg b.i.d. , Hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg
q.d. , Voltaren 75 mg b.i.d. , Cimetidine 300 mg p.o.
b.i.d. , Permatol 2.5 mg b.i.d. , and Levoxil 0.125 mg p.o. q.d.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is an obese female with an
antalgic gait on the right. No
lymphadenopathy. HEENT: Benign. She has dentures. Lungs clear
to auscultation bilaterally. Heart: Regular rate and rhythm.
Infrequent ectopic beats. Abdomen: Soft , nontender , nondistended.
Extremities: The right lower extremity sensation and motor are
intact. She has a 30 degree straight leg raise , 90 degrees of
flexion , 10 degrees of internal rotation , 30 degrees of external
rotation , and 2+ dorsalis pedis pulse.
LABORATORY DATA: X-rays demonstrated collapse of the right femoral
head consistent with osteonecrosis on the right.
An old MRI scan also shows these osteonecrotic changes in the right
femoral head.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the operating room on
10/16/97 .  She underwent a right total hip
replacement. The details of this procedure can be seen in the
operative note. Postoperatively the patient was maintained on
Coumadin for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis. She had a PCA for
pain control and this was quite adequate. She received one unit of
autologous blood for a postoperative hematocrit of 29 on
postoperative day #1. She did not require any further transfusions
and the last hematocrit prior to discharge was 35.4.
Postoperatively the patient developed numerous paroxysmal episodes
of supraventricular tachycardia. A medicine consult was obtained
and it was recommended that she be placed on Verapamil 80 mg t.i.d.
This appeared to work at first; however , it was unable to control
her tachycardia , particularly with any activity. The patient was
then placed on Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. and the Verapamil was
discontinued. The patient did quite well with this and her
paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia resolved. She was able to
progress with physical therapy without any episodes of increase in
heart rate. The patient was ruled out for a myocardial infarction
and her CK and MB remained negative. Her Hemovac was removed on
postoperative day #1. She had her wound inspected on postoperative
day #2 and thereafter her incision remained clean , dry , and intact
without any evidence of erythema or drainage. As mentioned
previously the patient was maintained on Coumadin for deep venous
thrombosis prophylaxis. She worked with physical therapy on a
daily basis and progressed well once her heart rate was under
control.
DISPOSITION: CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient was tolerating a
regular diet. She was working daily with physical
therapy and progressing well. She had resolution of her paroxysmal
supraventricular tachycardia with heart rate down into the 80s and
90s on Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. She had a stable hematocrit and
remained on Coumadin for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis. Her
incision appeared clean , dry , and intact without any evidence of
infection. She had lower extremity non-invasive tests , as well as
a hip film prior to discharge. She had no evidence of deep venous
thrombosis on her lower extremity non-invasive tests. The patient
will be discharged to rehabilitation. FOLLOWUP: The patient will
follow-up with Dr. Lemmen in six weeks. She is to cal for an
appointment. She will remain on Coumadin for deep venous
thrombosis prophylaxis for a period of six weeks. She should
remain on her Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. and , if room permits , her
Captopril can be discontinued and Lopressor used as her sole agent
for heart rate and blood pressure control. DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Captopril 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.d. , Levoxil 100 mcg p.o. q.d. ,
Ativan 0.5 mg p.o. q6h p.r.n. , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
multivitamin 1 p.o. q.d. , nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. chest
pain , Percocet 1 to 2 p.o. q4h p.r.n. , Coumadin to be dosed daily
to keep PT and INR in therapeutic range with INR of between 1.5 to
2. She should remain on Coumadin for a period of six weeks.
Cimetidine 300 mg p.o. b.i.d.
Dictated By: LOTTIE GUDIEL , M.D. BE6
Attending: BROOKE D. LEMMEN , M.D. OX65  NV975/3783
Batch: 1174 Index No. WUCU3347OE D: 5/5/97
T: 5/5/97