695831179 | PUO | 85228280 | | 737297 | 7/15/1998 12:00:00 AM | FEVER OF UNKNOWN ORIGIN | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/11/1998 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/4/1998
CHIEF COMPLAINT: The patient is a 79 year old female with diabetes
on immunosuppressants with fever x one day of an
unclear source.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient has a history of diabetes
and of PMR , maintained on prednisone
7.5 mg p.o. q day and Imuran 100 mg p.o. q day ( begun three weeks
ago ). On 9 of June the patient noticed some blood in the sink after
brushing her teeth and she felt that she had coughed this up. A
chest x-ray was done , which was within normal limits. The patient
had felt tired for the last week. Since yesterday morning , she
felt nauseated , anorexic , had some chills , and took her temperature
later in the day and found a fever of 102. The patient also had a
moderate headache , but has no nuchal rigidity and no difficulty
with moving her head. She also has an occasional cough , which has
been nonproductive , for the past few days. The patient has no
other localizing symptoms - no hemoptysis , no chest pain , no
palpitations , orthopnea , edema , dysphagia , abdominal pain ,
diarrhea , hematuria , dysuria , flank pain , vaginal discharge , edema ,
rash , joint pain , claudication or scalp tenderness. The patient
has no moved her bowels for four days , but this is not unusual for
her.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Mrs. Krochmal is somewhat lethargic , though
appropriate in conversation. Vital signs:
Temperature 103.0 , blood pressure 140/70. HEENT examination:
Anicteric. The extraocular muscles are intact. The pupils were
equal , round and reactive to light. No scalp tenderness. Temporal
arteries are nontender. The oropharynx is dry with no thrush. The
neck is supple. Chest: Crackles at the left base. No jugular
venous distention. Normal S1 and S2. No murmurs , rubs or gallops.
Abdomen: Bowel sounds are positive , soft , nontender , nondistended ,
no hepatosplenomegaly or masses. Rectal examination: Guaiac
negative. Extremities: No edema. No rashes. No tenderness.
Neurological examination: 5/5 strength in all extremities.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Diabetes , PMR , hypothyroidism , peripheral
neuropathy , lower back pain , osteoporosis ,
borderline hypertension , history of stroke ( difficulty playing the
piano with her right hand , mild slurring of speech , but by
discharge her symptoms of wide-based gait and slurring of speech
had resolved. )
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: 1 ) Imuran 100 mg p.o. q day. 2 ) Prednisone
7.5 mg p.o. q day. 3 ) Synthroid 0.25 mg p.o.
q day. 4 ) Glucotrol 10 mg p.o. q day. 5 ) Lasix 20 mg p.o. q other
day. 6 ) Fosamax 10 mg p.o. q day. 7 ) Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q day.
8 ) Cytotec 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. 9 ) Lithium 300 mg p.o. q day. 10 )
Inderal 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 20 mg p.o. q.p.m. and 10 mg p.o.
q.h.s.
ALLERGIES: Sulfa.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a retired Hebrew teacher. The
patient lives with her husband in a retirement
home. Tobacco - One pack per day for 20 years. Quit 20 years ago.
Alcohol - Occasional.
FAMILY HISTORY: The patient's mother had a stroke in her 60's.
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory studies on admission showed a white
blood cell count of 8 , 200 , with 15 bands. ALT
18 , AST 26 , alkaline phosphatase 64 , total bilirubin 0.2 , ESR 55 ,
hematocrit 35.8. Sodium 139 , potassium 4.1 , creatinine 1.3.
A spinal tap was done which revealed the gram stain revealed no
organisms , no polys and no epithelial cells. Only one white cell
was noted in the CSF , glucose 92 , protein 46. The patient's
urinalysis showed 5 - 7 white blood cells , 2+ bacteria. The
patient's chest x-ray showed no infiltrates , no free air. KUB
showed no signs of obstruction.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient's Imuran was held because it was
thought that this could be a possible cause of
her fever. She was started on Ceftriaxone two grams , Mezlin and
Gentamicin in the Emergency Room. The patient's blood and urine
cultures were all negative , as was the spinal culture. The patient
improved steadily , and the day following admission she had been
afebrile x 24 hours saturating 94% on room air; therefore , the plan
was to discharge her. On the floor the patient received two grams
of Ceftazidime x one and then was taken off of antibiotics.
On the afternoon of 29 of July the patient's oxygen saturation
suddenly dropped. She complained of feeling short of breath and
nauseous. Her room air saturation was 82% when these symptoms
first developed. Over the next 30 minutes the patient
decompensated and her oxygenation was steadily increased; however ,
on 100% nonrebreather face mask her oxygen saturation was less than
80% and her skin appeared mottled. A portable chest x-ray showed
mild congestive heart failure. The patient's EKG showed a normal
sinus rhythm , no axis changes and no ST changes. The patient had
received 100 mg of IV Compazine for nausea; otherwise , no new
medications since admission. Her temperature was 100.5 at 2:00
p.m. Because of her rapid decompensation a code green was called
and she was intubated and transferred to the MICU. ABG showed a pH
of 7.35 , a pCO2 of 44 , and a pO2 of 96 following intubation. Blood
pressure remained , during this time , at 130 to 200 over 70 to 90
with heartrates in the 70's to 90's. During her rapid
decompensation the patient was given nebulizers , but with no
effect. The cause of the patient's sudden decompensation was
unclear. During the period of rapid decompensation the patient got
a total of 100 mg of IV Lasix. Her lung exam showed some crackles ,
but she did not appear to be all that wet. A chest x-ray three
hours post intubation showed diffuse fluffy infiltrates in the
bilateral lung fields , more central than peripheral. No effusion
was noted. Based on the findings of this chest x-ray , a VQ scan
was not done. It was thought that the rapid decompensation was due
to either pulmonary edema ( the patient had been on 150 cc an hour
of IV fluids for approximately 24 hours because she was dehydrated
when she first came in ) , blood , or pneumonia. The patient was
covered with Vancomycin , Ceftazidime ( for Pseudomonas ) ,
Levofloxacin ( for Legionella ) , and Pentamidine ( for PCP ). The
patient was also given 50 mg of IV Solu-Medrol b.i.d. Numerous
laboratory studies were sent off including: RSV , influenza ,
parainfluenza , VRE , Legionella , PCP , adenovirus , acid-fast bacilli ,
CH50 , and ANA , all of which were negative. Urine and blood
cultures were negative as well. Cardiogenic pulmonary edema was
thought to be an unlikely cause , given that she had a normal left
ventricular size and an ejection fraction of 50% in an
echocardiogram done right after being intubated. There was also no
evidence of any right ventricular dysfunction or RV strain.
She did well over the two days following intubation and was
extubated on 6 of May A bronchoscopy was considered , given the
patient's history of hemoptysis , but as the hemoptysis resolved
over the next couple of days , it was thought to be unnecessary.
The patient's oxygen saturation following extubation was 95% on
three liters nasal cannula and continued to be in the mid 90's once
she was weaned to room air in the subsequent two days. All
antibiotics were stopped while the patient was in the MICU except
for Levofloxacin , which was continued for a seven to ten day
course. The patient was gradually tapered off of the IV
Solu-Medrol and put on a p.o. prednisone taper starting at 80 mg
p.o. q day. The Pulmonary Consult Team saw her when she was back
on the floor for her continued hemoptysis , but this appeared to
resolve over the next couple of days , and , as a result , it was
decided that this need not be pursued at the present. The patient
did well over the next several days and the day prior to discharge
was saturating at 94% on room air and received 10 mg of p.o.
prednisone. The etiology of the patient's sudden decompensation
was never entirely clarified , but it appeared that flash pulmonary
edema was probably the most likely explanation , possibly due to a
viral pneumonia in conjunction with fluid overload.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1 ) Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n.
headache. 2 ) Premarin 0.625 mg p.o. q
day. 3 ) Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 4 ) Lasix 20 mg p.o. q other
day. 5 ) Glucotrol 10 mg p.o. q day. 6 ) Synthroid 125 micrograms
p.o. q day. 7 ) Lithium 300 mg p.o. q day. 8 ) Cytotec 400
micrograms p.o. t.i.d. 9 ) Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q day. 10 )
Prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. 11 ) Inderal 20 mg p.o. q day. 12 )
Fosamax 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. 13 ) Elavil 50 mg p.o. q.h.s.
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION: The patient's discharge disposition is to
home with VNA.
FOLLOW-UP PLANS: The patient is to follow-up with her primary
care doctor , Dr. Elfrieda Winzer , if her weight
increases by more than two pounds , or if she has any further
problems. The patient is also to follow-up with him next week.
The patient is also to follow-up with Dr. Holda from the Cardiology
Group , as needed.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient's condition on discharge was
stable.
Dictated By: TABATHA HOLLWAY , M.D. QS4
Attending: ELFRIEDA WINZER , M.D. LP8
KU201/3793
Batch: 07353 Index No. IXUPGW7NX6 D: 6/24/98
T: 10/5/98