194522520 | PUO | 87221996 | | 6304551 | 7/4/2003 12:00:00 AM | STROKE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/4/2003 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 8/26/2003
ATTENDING: DERICK DELCIE YAN MD
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:
Stented basilar occlusion.
ADDITIONAL DIAGNOSIS:
None , Q-wave myocardial infarction.
OPERATIONS/PROCEDURES:
Cardiac catheterization done on 3/14/03.
HISTORY AND REASON FOR HOSPITALIZATION:
This is a 70-year-old female with a history of coronary artery
disease , diabetes mellitus , hypertension and ____ fibrillation
managed on aspirin and Plavix who presents to the Totin Hospital And Clinic emergency department complaining of lethargy , diplopia
and vertigo. Further information regarding her symptomatology is
not currently available as the patient's initial mental status
was quite poor.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for hypertension , diabetes , glaucoma ,
hypercholesterolemia , history of alcohol abuse , history of
coronary artery disease.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Not available currently in detail but included aspirin 325 mg and
Plavix 25 mg p.o. q.d.
ALLERGIES:
She is allergic to NSAIDs , penicillin and Diltiazem.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION UPON ADMISSION:
Revealed her to be lethargic , obese. Her face is slightly
asymmetric with some left cheek swelling. Her neck revealed no
bruits. Her heart was irregularly irregular. Her lungs revealed
bibasilar crackles. Her extremities had 1+ pitting edema
bilaterally. Neurologic examination: The only focal findings
were a transient skewed deviation of her eyes. Further
information regarding this is not currently available. Focal
weakness and numbness were not delineated upon initial
evaluation.
SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was admitted to the Neurology Intensive Care Unit
given her initial imaging findings. These findings were that she
had an occlusion , flat high-grade stenosis of the distal basilar
artery. There was no acute infarction noted. Based on these
findings , she was admitted to the Neurology Intensive Care Unit
and placed on intravenous heparin. Her neurologic status
gradually improved throughout her hospitalization. She did not
complain of diplopia after the first day of her hospitalization.
She also was quite awake after the first day of her
hospitalization. Repeat magnetic resonance imaging done on
10/21/03 revealed a new left cerebellar infarct with persistent
high-grade stenosis of the basilar artery which did appear a bit
more patent than the initial scan done on 10/20/03. At the time
of her discharge , she was being transitioned from heparin to
Coumadin and she was neurologically intact. With regard to her
cardiovascular status , the patient initially ruled in for an MI
based on positive cardiac markers. Her peak troponin-I was 11.02
and her peak CKMB was 18.4. She had lateral T-wave inversions
that were new compared to her old EKGs. She was brought to the
cardiac catheterization laboratory where it was found that she
had multiple moderate stenoses but without any high-grade or
critical stenoses. She was found however to have an elevated
wedge pressure of approximately 30 cm. Echocardiogram done on
10/30/03 revealed an ejection fraction of 60%. She had a mildly
dilated left atrium. It was found that she had moderate
tricuspid regurgitation. Her pulmonary artery pressures were
elevated to 51 mL of mercury. She also is found to have moderate
mitral regurgitation. Based on the findings of her
catheterization and elevated wedge pressures , the patient was
diuresed relatively aggressively. She was also given high doses
of beta-blockade. Her troponin and CKMB levels did decrease
after this. She remained weight controlled with beta-blockade.
There was some discussion of possibly cardioverting her , but
given her recent stroke this will be deferred. With regard to
her blood pressure management , she has been managed while at an
inpatient with hydralazine and Lopressor. A decision was made
not to introduce an ACE inhibitor at this time given her recent
_____ and her baseline renal insufficiency ( 1.8-1.9 ). The
addition of an ACE inhibitor may be indicated at some point in
the near future.
DISCHARGE PLAN:
The patient will be discharged to Howood Medical Center
Hospital.
FOLLOW UP PLANS:
The patient will see her primary care physician , Ma Yeagley ,
at the Department of Medicine on 9/26/04. She will see Dr.
Buck Moose of Neurology on 2/12/03 at 4 p.m. She will see Dr.
Corey Herrmann at the Department of Cardiology on 10/4/04.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , heparin drip being transitioned to
Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d. with goal INR of 2-3 , folic acid 1 mg
p.o. q.d. , hydralazine 75 mg p.o. q.i.d. , metoprolol 125 mg p.o.
t.i.d. , simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Cosopt 1 drop o.u. b.i.d. ,
Nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
eScription document: 5-2133269 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: MOOSE , BUCK
Attending: PAULK , CHANCE YANG
Dictation ID 0127979
D: 1/15/03
T: 1/15/03