497634108 | PUO | 23712709 | | 254408 | 11/6/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/25/1992 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 7/16/1992
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: RECENT CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE , HYPOKALEMIA ,
AND HYPERTENSION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 73 year old black
female with a history of diabetes and
hypertension who felt well until October 1992 when she developed an
episode of the flu. Since that time , she has noted persistent
nocturia. Four to five days prior to admission , the patient noted
an increase of shortness of breath requiring her to sleep upright
and increasing peripheral edema. Two days prior to admission the
patient started on Lasix 400 mg b.i.d. with a dramatic decrease in
her shortness of breath and orthopnea. She was able to sleep in
bed the night of admission. She denies chest pain during any of
these episodes. Blood pressure was in the range of 180/90 without
headache , cognitive changes , or hematuria. Patient was admitted to
Pagham University Of for hypertension and congestive heart
failure evaluation. She states she does follow a low salt diet and
makes her own soups without salt. She does not eat cold cuts , etc.
She denies elicit drug use , birth control use , or heavy alcohol
use. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Notable for diabetes mellitus for
fourteen years on an oral hyperglycemic agent and hypertension for
the last three years. PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Notable for an
appendectomy at age 16 and a hysterectomy at age 47. She has no
children. ALLERGIES: Aspirin which causes gastrointestinal upset.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Inderal 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o.
t.i.d. times two days , K-Dur 10 mEq every day , Tolazamide 250 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , and Hygroton which was stopped one week prior to
admission. SOCIAL HISTORY: Notable for a half a pack of
cigarettes for ten years stopped one month ago and rare alcohol
use. FAMILY HISTORY: Notable for her father with diabetes who
died of a massive heart attack at age 48. Her mother had a brain
tumor and died at age 43. She has three brothers who have a
history of obesity , one brother died during cardiac surgery , and
she has two sisters with gallbladder and kidney disease.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , the patient presented as a
pleasant black female in no apparent
distress. Her blood pressure was 160/96 and she was not
orthostatic. Her pulse was 92 , her respiratory rate was 14 , and
she was afebrile. LUNGS: Examination was clear without wheezes or
rales. CARDIAC: Examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm
with no murmurs. ABDOMEN: Examination was unremarkable.
EXTREMITIES: Revealed 2+ edema to the mid calves and 2+ pulses
palpable. RECTAL: Examination was hemoccult negative.
NEUROLOGICAL: Examination was non-focal.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission , the patient's potassium was
2.7 , chloride 92 , CO2 33 , and her
magnesium was 1.6. Her white count was 10 , hematocrit 36.4 , and
platelet count was 313. The patient's liver function tests were
within normal limits and her chest X-Ray showed no active disease.
EKG revealed normal sinus rhythm at 96 beats per minute , left
ventricular hypertrophy with strained pattern , and a Q wave in III
as well as flipped T waves in V3 through V6. This was no change
from an EKG in October 1992. The left ventricular hypertrophy was
new since an EKG in February 1987.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient had an Endocrine consultation to work
her up for aldosteronemia. The patient had a
24-hour urine which showed no evidence of potassium wasting
bringing some doubt on the hyperaldosterone diagnosis. The
patient's diabetes was well controlled on the basis of fingerstix.
The patient's hypertension was controlled by manipulating her
medications. Thyroid work-up revealed a TCH of 2.9 which was
within normal limits. Her electrolytes were managed with potassium
and magnesium replacement as needed. Her cardiac status was
evaluated as the patient occasionally complained of fluttering
feelings which did not correlate with EKG changes or congestive
heart failure. The patient had an exercise thallium test prior to
discharge which was stopped secondary to fatigue and shortness of
breath. There was no chest pain or EKG changes. The plan was for
the patient to have the patient have a Holter as an out-patient.
She is also to have pulmonary function tests as an out-patient.
The Endocrine Service will follow-up on the possible diagnosis of
hyperaldosteronemia. The patient was considered to be stable for
discharge on May , 1992.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Potassium 40 mEq q.d. ,
Lopressor 100 mg t.i.d. , Glyburide 10 mg q.d. ,
Diltiazem SR 120 mg p.o. q.d. , and sublingual Nitrogen 0.3 two to
five minutes apart for smothering feeling. The patient is also
told to maintain a low salt diet. The patient is to follow-up with
Dr. Etta Six in one week. She is also to follow-up with the
Endocrine Service , Dr. Buckman , in two weeks on May .
WW695/9818
ETTA E. SIX , M.D. CR6 D: 4/17/92
Batch: 1461 Report: S0166K85 T: 8/2/92
Dictated By: MARGURITE R. GUILBE , M.D.