995493955 | PUO | 25782688 | | 208910 | 10/15/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/9/1996 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 5/21/1996
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION.
ADDITIONAL DIAGNOSES: 1. INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES.
2. HYPERTENSION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 56 year old with a
history of insulin-dependent diabetes
mellitus and hypertension , who presents status post an anterior
myocardial infarction , assessed with TPA , with postmyocardial
infarction chest pain. Patient has cardiac risk factors of
diabetes x seven years and hypertension x seven months. He was in
his usual state of good health , with normal low exercise tolerance ,
although under an enormous amount of stress at his job. When he
went to bed on June , 1996 , he had a very fitful sleep and
awoke with 7/10 substernal chest pain radiating to his left arm ,
without any associated symptoms , lasting 20 minutes. Took Tylenol
and lisinopril with relief. He called his Carna Home Hospital Attending , was told to go to Plantdan Camchild Hospital , and there was
found to have ST elevations in the anterior region. He was treated
with TPA , intravenous nitrates , and beta blocker , aspirin. His
pain lasted a total of two hours. Post TPA , he had resolution of
pain and electrocardiogram changes and was in the Coronary Care
Unit in Ken Health Care on intravenous heparin and nitroglycerin pain free
since TPA. His peak CK was 136 , with an MB of 5. His
echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 55-60% , with mild
septal hypokinesis. He was transferred to the Pagham University Of for post myocardial infarction care.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) Hypertension x seven months. 2 )
Diabetes x seven years , on insulin
currently. 3 ) History of nephrolithiasis. 4 ) Possible history
of thalassemia. 5 ) Sleep apnea x seven years , on CPAP 12 cm of
water pressure.
MEDICATIONS: Lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q. day , insulin 25 units of NPH
and 5 units of regular q.a.m. , 10 units of NPH q.
day.
ALLERGIES: Sulfur.
FAMILY HISTORY: Both parents are alive and well. No coronary
artery disease or diabetes.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Married , with one daughter. He is currently
self-employed as an architect. No tobacco or
alcohol use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , he was afebrile at 99.8.
Heart rate was 80. Blood pressure was
114/76. Respiratory rate was 20 , with room air saturation of 96%.
He was a well-developed , well-nourished male in no acute distress ,
with examination significant for clear chest , heart with regular
rate and rhythm , I-II/VI systolic ejection murmur at the apex , flat
jugular venous distention , no carotid bruits , femoral bruits noted ,
and an abdomen that was benign. He did have notable left axillary
lymphadenopathy , 1-2 cm , that was non-tender , and inguinal
adenopathy bilaterally 2 x 1 cm for two nodes. Extremity
examination - No cyanosis , clubbing , or edema , positive peripheral
pulses. Neurologic examination was non-focal.
LABORATORY DATA: Labs on admission were significant for a CK of
46.
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1 ) Cardiovascularly - The patient was
continued on postmyocardial infarction care
initially on heparin and intravenous TNG , with the plan to monitor
via telemetry x 72 hours. He was additionally continued on
medications of aspirin and Lopressor as part of an anti-ischemic
regimen. On the second day of his hospital course , he had
recurrent chest discomfort , and it was decided to perform cardiac
catheterization. Catheterization was performed on March , 1996
and revealed a right dominant system with subtotal D2 occlusion , a
very large vessel. A left ventriculogram showed mild anterior
hypokinesis. He had percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty
of the D2 lesion down to a 20% residual , with good result. The
patient had no return of chest pain in-house subsequent to his
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty and was managed on a
medical regimen of atenolol , aspirin , and the addition of clonidine
prior to discharge.
2 ) Anemia - With a severely decreased MCV , thought secondary to
beta-thalassemia. Hematocrit remained in the low 30s ( 34 ) and was
stable in-house.
3 ) Lymphadenopathy - Noted on admission. It was decided that this
would be followed by his outpatient physician , Verdie Macisaac , M.D. ,
in one to two weeks. The patient did not have any complaints or
symptoms of fever , chills , or night sweats.
COMPLICATIONS: None.
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to home.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
FOLLOW-UP: In Cardiology with Dr. Bachmann on May , 1996.
He will follow up with Dr. Verdie Macisaac by calling on
Monday to schedule an appointment.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 100 mg b.i.d. , clonidine 0.1 mg
b.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg q. day ,
nitroglycerin sublingual tabs p.r.n. chest discomfort.
Dictated By: CORRINA CROOKED , M.D. SJ80
Attending: LASHANDA L. BACHMANN , M.D. XR66
QT011/5442
Batch: 91526 Index No. JZCNZL8B77 D: 11/5/96
T: 7/30/96