417565467 | PUO | 60288502 | | 795344 | 1/4/1997 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/14/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 3/20/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: PNEUMONIA.
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS:
1. NON-INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS.
2. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE.
3. STATUS POST CORONARY ARTERY BYPASS GRAFT.
4. CHRONIC ATRIAL FIBRILLATION.
5. HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA.
6. CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 70-year-old man with
a history of non-insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus , coronary artery disease , status post three
vessel coronary artery bypass graft in 1993 , chronic atrial
fibrillation , and hypercholesterolemia , who presents with
complaints of recent flu-like symptoms times two days , including
right sided chest pain exacerbated by breathing and coughing , and
nonproductive cough with chills. The patient is followed by Dr.
Banos of the Ainam Iro Hospital , and by Dr. Schwerd of the
Potwood Kinlis Wellscajohns Health Center cardiology team. The patient recalls flu-like symptoms in
early April 1996 , but otherwise , was well until two days ago
when he noted the onset of right sided , sharp chest pain which was
well localized to the right chest , worse with breathing and chest
movement. The patient denied any similarity to previous anginal
pain , which he noted is more substernal in nature and has not
occurred in months. The patient was concerned that the pain was
cardiac and took two sublingual nitroglycerin without relief , and
therefore , presented to the Pagham University Of Emergency
Room. The patient denied any nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis ,
shortness of breath , abdominal pain , melena , constipation ,
diarrhea , and hemoptysis , at the time of admission. He notes
history of chronic venostasis disease in his lower extremities with
bilateral decreased sensation and episodes of neuropathy pain which
has not changed recently.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for: 1. Coronary artery disease
status post three vessel coronary artery
bypass graft in 1993. 2. Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
times 15 years. 3. Hypercholesterolemia. 4. History of chronic
atrial fibrillation. 5. Peripheral neuropathy in bilateral lower
extremities.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Three vessel coronary artery bypass graft
in 1993 , left carotid endarterectomy in
1987.
SOCIAL HISTORY: No tobacco history , occasional alcohol use.
The patient is a part time practicing lawyer.
FAMILY HISTORY: Father died of coronary artery disease , no history
of diabetes mellitus or high blood pressure.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Glipizide 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 10 mg p.o.
q.supper , Mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. ,
Norvasc 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. Sunday , Saturday ,
Tuesday , and Thursday , and 2.5 mg p.o. q. Monday , Wednesday , and
Friday , Nitro-Dur patch 8.4 mg q.a.m. off in p.m. , alprazolam up to
2 mg p.o. q.day p.r.n. , Lasix 20 mg p.o. p.r.n. swelling , usually
one time per week , and Tylenol p.o. p.r.n.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: At the time of admission , vital signs
included a temperature to 101.4 , pulse 92 ,
respirations 28 , blood pressure 170/74 , and O2 saturation 89% on
room air with 94%-95% on two liters O2. HEENT examination revealed
moist mucous membranes without lesions. Pupils were equal , round ,
and reactive to light. Extraocular muscles were intact. Neck had
no LAD or JVD. Lungs had crackles present with egophony and E to A
change over the right low lateral lung field , otherwise , clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Heart had an irregular rhythm with a
regular rate. There was a II/VI systolic ejection murmur at the
right upper sternal border and left lower sternal border. There
was normal S1 and S2 , no S3 or S4. Abdomen was soft , nontender ,
and nondistended with positive bowel sounds. Extremities revealed
1+ bilateral pitting edema with bilateral changes of chronic
venostasis , 1+ pedal pulses on the left , but left foot slightly
cool to touch. There was no palpable pulse in the right lower
extremity , but good capillary refill and warm. Neurological
examination revealed cranial nerves II-XII were intact bilaterally.
Motor was intact bilaterally. Sensory was intact to light touch
with decrease in sensory to light touch bilateral lower
extremities. Deep tendon reflexes were 2+ bilaterally.
LABORATORY DATA: White blood cell count was 21.12 , hematocrit
38.8 , and platelets 191. INR was 2.1 , PTT 42.3.
Sodium was 136 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 98 , bicarbonate 25 , BUN 16 ,
creatinine 1.2 , and glucose 279. Admission EKG was significant for
atrial fibrillation at 76 beats per minute with evidence for cold
left bundle branch block. Chest x-ray was significant for right
middle lobe infiltrate consistent with pneumonia.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the floor for
administration of intravenous antibiotics. The
patient did well overnight. In the a.m. of 4/5/97 , the patient
had an episode of hypoxia with increased requirement for oxygen and
ultimately required 100% face mask for 93% O2 saturation. The
patient denied any anginal chest pain , nausea , vomiting , or
increased shortness of breath. A stat EKG revealed no changes.
Stat chest x-ray revealed bilateral pulmonary edema. This
responded well to IV Lasix. However , the patient continued to
require increased amounts of oxygen over the next two days wherein
he had further episodes of pulmonary edema requiring p.r.n. IV
Lasix. During this time , blood cultures from the time of admission
grew out Pneumococcus times two which were sensitive to penicillin.
The patient's broad coverage antibiotics were then changed to IV
penicillin. An echocardiogram obtained on 4/5/97 revealed a high
normal left ventricular size with mild concentric hypertrophy ,
hypokinesis with inferior septum , and inferior posterior region ,
ejection fraction 45% , normal RV size and function , left atrial
enlargement , mild to moderate mitral regurgitation , and no aortic
stenosis or insufficiency. The patient was initiated on Captopril
which was then increased titrating with the patient's blood
pressure over his hospital stay. The patient , during his hospital
course , was also noted to have increased blood sugars to the 450
range. Therefore , he was started on a sliding scale insulin
regimen.
The patient improved with regards to his hypoxia and , on the
morning of 6/15/97 , he was breathing room air with an O2
saturation of 93%. His lung examination was significant for only
rare rhonchi on the right side. Chest x-ray of 3/4/97 revealed
improvement of his right lung pneumonia with persistence of
bilateral effusions consistent with his episodes of pulmonary
edema. Fingerstick glucose was 164 reflecting an overall
improvement and decreased need for sliding scale insulin. The
patient was felt to be well and ready for discharge.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Norvasc 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. , Coumadin 2.5 mg
one p.o. q. Monday , Wednesday , and Friday ,
and two p.o. q. Sunday , Saturday , Tuesday , and Thursday , Nitro-Dur
patch 0.4 mg per day to be removed at night , Captopril 25 mg p.o.
t.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.a.m. , penicillin-V 500 mg p.o. q.i.d.
times seven more days , Mevacor 20 mg one p.o. q.p.m. , and glipizide
5 mg one p.o. q.a.m. and two p.o. q.p.m.
DISPOSITION: The patient is to be discharged. He will be staying
with family and is to follow up with the Potwood Kinlis Wellscajohns Health Center
cardiology team in 10 days. He is also to follow up with his
En Lesgaleson Graceton-nier County Hospital doctor within three weeks. The patient is not
expected to have any disability and should recover well. He has
been instructed to call should he develop a high fever , further
chest pain , or shortness of breath.
Dictated By: DESIRAE R. KRISHNA MARCOTT , M.D. RT35
Attending: CHRISTINE DARIO , M.D. RZ02  JM517/2189
Batch: 73269 Index No. W2JD8B3JD4 D: 6/15/97
T: 4/9/97
CC: 1. CHRISTINE DARIO , M.D. AW87
2. DR. LATTUS BROOK MEPA COMMUNITY HOSPITAL