182796277 | PUO | 05941893 | | 383647 | 6/10/2002 12:00:00 AM | SMALL BOWEL OBSTRUCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/10/2002 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 2/2/2002
DISPOSITION: Rehab facility as a vented patient.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient is a 77-year-old female with
multiple comorbidity noted to have sudden
onset of diffuse abdominal pain 4 days prior to presentation. She
reported the pain as constant and radiated to the back and the
legs. She had nausea and vomiting on the day of presentation after
eating her lunch. She did notice also some constipation and she
had a small bowel movement on the day of presentation.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Atrial fibrillation. Hypertension.
Noninsulin dependent diabetes. History of
pneumonia. History of sigmoid diverticulitis , status post
colectomy , ventral hernia , status post repair. Congestive heart
failure. Pacemaker placement on July , 2002 for sick sinus
syndrome. Rectal jejunum AVM status post GI bleed. Status post
CVA. History of ascites.
MEDICATIONS: Lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Atenolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Glucotrol 5 mg b.i.d. , Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Zestril 5 mg p.o. q.d. , Coumadin for her atrial fibrillation ,
Tylenol #3 for pain and iron supplements.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was afebrile with temperature of 95.8.
Her heart rate was 93 in atrial
fibrillation. Her blood pressure was 124/77. She was satting 100%
on room air. She had an irregularly irregular rhythm. Lungs clear
to auscultation. Her abdomen was distended with shifting dullness.
She had diffuse tenderness. She has guaiac positive stools. She
had no guarding or rebound.
LABORATORY: Her sodium is 140 , her potassium is 3.7 , her
creatinine was 1.1 , her LFTs were all within normal
range with the exception of a slightly elevated alkaline
phosphatase at 238. Her total bilirubin was 1.4 , her lipase was
25 , amylase was 57 , white count was 5.7 , hematocrit was 30.3 , coags
were notable for an INR of 2.1. Her UA was negative with only two
white cells sediment.
RADIOLOGY: Her KUB showed air fluid level small bowel and dilated
proximal small bowel. Chest film showed a pacer
placement with cardiomegaly and atelectasis at the bilateral basis.
Abdomen CT showed a high grade small bowel obstruction with
isolated cluster of small bowel with a closed loop without signs of
mesenteric ischemia. She also had a small ventral hernia. The
patient was given 6 units of FFP and taken to the operating room
for an exploratory laparotomy.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the operating after her
anticoagulation was reversed. She had an
exploratory laparotomy , lysis of adhesions , with an obstructed loop of
small bowel , with multiple adhesions around the closed
loop obstruction. There was fecal spillage due to an enterotomy within
a closed loop. All of the bowel was viable , and therefore no resection was
required. A moderately sized bezoar was removed
from the small bowel in the area of the obstruction. The EBL was 400 cc. She
was given two units of FFP in the OR. She had 1 , 500 cc of fluid as
well as two units of packed cells , about 1 liter os ascites was
drained intraoperatively. Her abdomen was closed with sepra mesh.
She was intubated and transferred to the Intensive Care Unit.
Postoperatively , she had fairly stable vital signs with a brief
episode of hypotension immediately postoperatively. She was
sedated with Fentanyl and Versed in terms of her cardiac status.
Her atrial fibrillation was persistent and she was receiving
Lopressor 10 mg IV q.6h. Respiratory , she was intubated and on
pressor support of 15 with a blood gas that showed she was
oxygenating well. For GI , she had an NG tube in and she was
n.p.o. , had Zantac. GU , she was continued fluid resuscitation.
I.D. , she was started on ampicillin , levofloxacin , Flagyl for a
three day course.
The patient had a prolonged post-operative course characterized by perisistent
right heart failure , massive edema , several episodes of presumed line sepsis ,
and failure to vean from ventillatory support. Her mental status was also slow
to recover. She maintained normal renal function throughout.
Her GI function recovered by POD #5 , and she was able to tolerate full
nutitional support via NG feedings. She underwent a tracheostomy on POD #15.
She then proceeded to make a slow but steady recovery , with normalization of
her body fluid status , hepatic function , and mental function. At the time of
her discharge , her major issues were ventillatory support , with ongoing
compromise from chronic right heart failure.
Tubes , lines , and drains. She had a left brachial vein PICC Line
placed on November . The line was measured at 45 cm. She had a Foley
in place. She had a #7 portex trach tube. She also had an NG tube
for the duration of her hospital course and she is to continue to
have an NG tube while she is trach for tube feeds.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Benzodiazepine overuse and dependence.
Atrial fibrillation. Right heart failure
with secondary ascites. Respiratory failure. Serratia pneumonia.
Status post pacemaker placement for sick sinus syndrome. Small
bowel obstruction. Hyperbilirubinemia of unclear etiology.
Presumed acalculus cholecystitis . Iron deficiency anemia.
Diabetes mellitus. Coag negative staph bacteremia.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Atrovent and albuterol inhalers q.4h. ,
natural tears 2 drops OU t.i.d. ,
ceftazidime 1 gram IV t.i.d. , cholestyramine 4 grams/NG tube
b.i.d. , digoxin 0.25 mg/NG tube q.d. , Epogen 40 , 000 units every
week , iron sulfate 300 mg/NG tube t.i.d. , Lasix 80 mg/NG tube ,
b.i.d. , NPH insulin 40 units subcu b.i.d. , lactulose 30 cc p.o./NG
tube q.d. to be titrated to bowel movements , Reglan 10 mg/NG tube
q.i.d. , Aldactone 50 mg/NG tube b.i.d. , Actigall 300 mg/NG tube
t.i.d. , vancomycin 1 gram IV q.d. until November , 2002 , Zyprexa 5
mg/NG tube q a.m. and 10 mg/NG tube q.h.s. , also Ativan 1 mg/NG
tube p.r.n. anxiety.
DISPOSITION: Vented rehab.
FOLLOWUP: Followup is to be with Dr. Zangl in two weeks.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient is to remain on trach collar
and vented p.r.n. She is also to continue
her NG tube for tube feeds which are to be full strength 2-cal at
50 cc an hour. She is to receive two scoops of ProMod.
Dictated By: TRISH CHAIX , M.D. XE00
Attending: CARYN ZANGL , M.D. OK89
GS814/733179
Batch: 9694 Index No. NESAV959XU D: 1/24/02
T: 1/24/02