690475341 | PUO | 06815791 | | 4061080 | 8/21/2004 12:00:00 AM | SEVERE CARDIOMYOPATHY , CHEST PAIN , POSTIVE THALLIUM STRESS TEST | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/13/2004 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/28/2004
ATTENDING: CHRISTINE DARIO MD
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
Anemia , GI bleed and CHF exacerbation.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This patient is a 64-year-old gentleman with multiple past
cardiovascular medical issues including hypertension , diabetes ,
hypercholesterolemia , nonobstructive CAD on prior catheterization
of 1993 and idiopathic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction
reported at baseline from the Land Medical Center to be
45% , prior echocardiogram in Pagham University Of from
1994 reported at 25 to 30% , question alcoholic cardiomyopathy ,
atrial fibrillation. He is status post right MCA CVA while on
Coumadin for atrial fibrillation and peripheral vascular disease ,
history of GI bleed who presented with increased shortness of
breath and cough x several weeks. He noted initial shortness of
breath and nonproductive cough in the end of 9/24 with a
question infiltrate on chest film at that time and the patient
was treated with a 10-day course of antibiotics of unknown
content question levofloxacin with no improvement. Since late
9/24 , the patient reports progressive shortness of breath ,
dyspnea on exertion particularly with ambulation of steps and
when lying down. Additionally , the patient reports a vague band
like pain discomfort over left anterior chest particularly
associated with ambulation of steps and when lying supine. Chest
pain is associated with shortness of breath , but denies
lightheadedness , diaphoresis or recent nausea and vomiting.
Symptoms of chest pain and shortness of breath are notably worse
over the last one to two weeks through the patient reports
resolution over the last 24 hours with question of a new
medication that he is unable recall. He denies palpitation or
raising heart rate. He does report orthopnea , denies PND , but
does report intermittent lower extremity swelling. He denies
hematochezia , bright red blood per rectum , hematemesis with
question of melanotic stools over the last month. The patient
also with a history of prior GI bleed while in Nah several
years prior for which he was transfused 4 units of packed red
blood cells. EGD colonoscopy at that time revealed both upper
and lower GI lesions including several small AVM and
diverticulosis. Additionally , upper GI endoscopy performed at
that time revealed duodenitis.
The patient was seen in a Land Medical Center today
reportedly in atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. He had
previously been reported to be in this abnormal rhtyhm that
converted to normal sinus rhythm while on amiodarone. He was
noted to have rapid ventricular response in 120s. He had
appeared pale. Hematocrit obtained at that time reportedly 21.4
and the patient was admitted to the Pagham University Of
for further evaluation.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:
Of note , review of systems is positive for recent chills , no
fevers , reports intermittent productive cough and weakness and
fatigue. No weight loss over the last six months.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
As given , hypertension , diabetes , hypercholesterolemia ,
nonobstructive CAD on prior catheterization in 1993 , IDCM with EF
of 30 to 45% , question alcoholic cardiomyopathy , atrial
fibrillation on Coumadin , right MCA CVA in 1999 , PVD , peptic
ulcer disease , history of GI bleed with duodenitis ,
diverticulitis and AVM and right hand partial hemiparesis and
depression.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.
2. Lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d.
3. Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d.
4. Niacin 750 mg p.o. b.i.d.
5. Amitriptyline 50 mg p.o. q.day.
6. Folate B6.
7. Prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.
8. Avandia 4 mg p.o. b.i.d.
9. Valsartan 160 mg p.o. q.day.
10. Nifedipine 90 mg p.o. q.day.
11. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.d.
12. Bisoprolol 5 mg p.o. q.d.
13. Glucophage 500 mg b.i.d.
14. Gemfibrozil 600 mg p.o. q.day.
15. Zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.d.
16. Ambien 10 mg q.h.s.
17. Coumadin as needed.
18. Lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d.
ALLERGIES:
Reported isosorbide resulting in headache , amlodipine lower
extremity edema , Lopressor erectile dysfunction and Viagra , which
reportedly does not work for the patient.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
The patient has a 50-pack-year smoking history , continues to
smoke several cigarettes a day. Past alcohol abuse though the
patient reports no alcohol in the last 20 years. The patient
currently lives with his girlfriend of 45 years and is local to
Jowests
FAMILY HISTORY:
Family history is noncontributory. No history of a sudden
cardiac death.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Vital signs on admission include a temperature of 98 , heart rate
of 112 , blood pressure 168/90 , respiratory rate 20 93% on room
air. He was in no acute distress though the patient was seen to
be in shortness of breath when lying at 20 to 30 degrees. JVP on
admission 12 to 15 cm of water , difficult to assess given
habitus. The patient additionally with bibasilar rales ,
one-third to one-half up with poor air movement. No egophony or
consolidation was appreciated. Abdominal exam was unremarkable.
Lower extremities were warm and well perfused. He was able to
move all extremities , 4/5 strength in his right hand. He had
positive peripheral pulses and 1+ lower extremity edema , left
greater than right to mid calf.
LABORATORY DATA:
Laboratory values on admission are significant for creatinine of
1.8 of unknown baseline and glucose of 192. LFTs were within
normal limit. White count of 8.7 , hematocrit of 21.4 , down from
baseline of 30 to 35 and platelets of 351 , 000. MCV on hematocrit
was 84.
EKG on admission showed irregularly regular rhythm at 120 likely
atrial fibrillation versus atrial flutter with variable block , ST
segment depression laterally in V5 through V6 , question demand
ischemia versus digoxin effect , left bundle branch block which is
reportedly the patient's baseline. Chest film with vascular
prominence at the hilum bilaterally , question mass infiltrate
over left lower lobe with no overt effusions.
ASSESSMENT:
The patient is a 64-year-old gentleman with extensive past
cardiac and otherwise medical history presenting to the Pagham University Of with CHF exacerbation , anemia with question
GI bleed with hematocrit in the 20s and question
community-acquired pneumonia.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. Cardiovascular: The patient with no evidence of acute
coronary syndrome. On admission , the patient was noted to be in
a rapid ventricular response at 120 and with CHF exacerbation.
The patient initially with complaint of chest pressure , which was
concerning for demand ischemia in the setting significant anemia
with increased heart rate and known ventricular dysfunction.
Cardiac enzymes were drawn and serially were elevated with a peak
troponin I of 4. Subsequent serial cardiac enzymes resolved to
baseline values. The patient was initially started on heparin IV
drip for concern for unstable plaque , but following consultation
with Dr. Dario in Cardiology , it was recommended anticoagulation
be stopped secondary to recent GI bleed and low concern for acute
coronary syndrome versus demand ischemia. Additionally , the
patient was rate controlled with IV following p.o. Lopressor ,
digoxin and amiodarone. Additionally , the patient's ACE
inhibitor was continued and titrated up to lisinopril 40. The
patient was initially diuresed given significant volume overload
with IV Lasix with diuresis of 4 to 8 liters over the hospital
course. Echocardiogram obtained during decompensated episode
revealed EF of 25 to 30% with global hypokinesis and septal
akinesis , was significantly altered from prior echocardiogram of
9/16/03 obtained at the Land Medical Center which had
revealed an EF of 40 to 45% with mild global HK. However , of
note , this echocardiogram was similar to prior echocardiogram in
Pagham University Of system from 1994 with no additional
wall motion abnormalities. The patient's cardiovascular issues
felt to stem secondary to anemia in the setting of increased
ventricular response and tachycardia , which led to demand
ischemia and subsequent troponin leak causing decompensated CHF.
The patient's symptomatology resolved with proper rate control
and resuscitation with IV fluids and blood. The patient's heart
rate was well controlled in the 60s to 70s and following IV
diuresis , the patient's CHF symptomatology resolved. At the time
of discharge , the patient was ambulating without difficulty with
no oxygen requirement. The patient was transitioned to all p.o.
regimen.
2. Heme: The patient with recent GI bleed with known both upper
and lower GI lesions including AVM and diverticulosis for which
the patient has been previously treated. The patient's
hematocrit on admission 21.4. The patient received 4 units of
packed red blood cells to stable hematocrit of 29 to 30 x 72
hours. In addition , the patient was never hemodynamically
unstable during admission. GI bleed felt to be a precipitating
etiology. The patient was seen by the GI Service , was
recommended further outpatient evaluation and upper and lower GI
endoscopy evaluation as required. The patient to follow up with
Dr. Dario in the Land Medical Center and outpatient EGD
and colonoscopy to be scheduled for the next week or two to
further evaluate. At the time of discharge , the patient's
hematocrit stable at 29 , no evidence of active GI bleed present.
Additionally , the patient initially held on Coumadin giving
concern for ongoing GI bleed and following stable transfusion ,
the patient's Coumadin was restarted at initially 5 and then
later 3 mg p.o. q.h.s. with INR goal of 2.8. To be further
evaluated as outpatient and INR to be checked on 5/11/04 in Dr.
Kangas office and titration of Coumadin as required.
3. GI: As mentioned prior , the patient with GI bleed , thought
to be precipitating etiology of the patient's current
hospitalization. The patient maintained on IV Protonix b.i.d.
and transitioned to p.o. Prilosec 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. As
mentioned , prior to GI consult , the patient will receive the
outpatient evaluation with EGD and colonoscopy as required for
further management.
4. Pulmonary: The patient with history of productive cough ,
fevers , chills. On admission , previously treated with course of
antibiotics , presumably Levaquin for presumed community-acquired
pneumonia giving ongoing symptomatology , the patient treated
initially with IV antibiotics including ceftriaxone and
azithromycin transitioned to cefpodoxime and azithromycin. The
patient to complete full 10-day course of antibiotics for
presumed community-acquired pneumonia. At the time of discharge ,
the patient afebrile , ambulating without difficulty , no dyspnea
on exertion and O2 saturation 95% on room air.
5. Psychiatry: The patient with long tobacco history given
extensive cardiovascular status , the patient received addiction
consultation regarding tobacco cessation. Following
consultation , the patient showing good promise regarding tobacco
cessation. He has expressed interest in doing so. As such , the
patient's antianxiety and depression medications have been
altered. The patient to decrease Zoloft to 25 mg p.o. q.d. from
50 and to continue that for seven days , following which time , he
should discontinue his Zoloft. Additionally , the patient started
on Wellbutrin initially 150 mg p.o. q.d. x seven days , to
transition up to b.i.d. as tolerated within seven days time as
Zoloft is discontinued , recommend further outpatient evaluation
as needed. The patient with several episodes of sundowning
during his hospital course , treated with Haldol with no further
incidents.
6. Endocrine: The patient with known diabetes , maintained on
Regular Insulin sliding scale with good blood sugar control. The
patient to continue on outpatient regimen of Avandia and
Glucophage. The patient may require additional anti-glycemic
medications in future as necessary.
7. Renal: The patient with chronicrenal insufficiency on
admission with a creatinine of 1.8 presumed baseline. At the
time of discharge , the patient's creatinine had resolved to 1.3 ,
thought to be secondary to cardiorenal syndrome in the setting of
acute CHF decompensation , recommend further outpatient management
evaluation. The patient to follow up with Dr. Dario in the Land Medical Center on 5/11/04 at 1:00 p.m. at which time ,
recommend further evaluation of hematocrit , INR , electrolyte as
required.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.day.
2. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.day.
3. Lasix 80 mg p q.day.
4. Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.day.
5. Niacin SR 750 mg p.o. b.i.d.
6. Amitriptyline 50 mg p.o. q.day.
7. Folate B6.
8. Prilosec 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. up from 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.
9. Avandia 4 mg p.o. b.i.d.
10. Hold valsartan.
11. Hold nifedipine.
12. Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg p.o. q.d. down from 25 mg q.day.
13. Hold bisoprolol , instead substitute Toprol XL 100 mg p.o.
q.day.
14. Glucophage 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.
15. Gemfibrozil 600 mg p.o. q.day.
16. Zoloft 25 mg p.o. q.day x seven days after which time it
should be discontinued.
17. Ambien 10 mg q.h.s.
18. Coumadin 3 mg to be titrated outpatient.
19. Lisinopril 40 mg q.day.
20. Wellbutrin SR 150 mg q.day. x seven days after which time it
should be increased to b.i.d.
21. Amitriptyline 50 mg q.h.s.
22. Nitroglycerin p.r.n.
23. K-Dur 20 mEq q.day.
24. Azithromycin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. x five days.
25. Cefpodoxime 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. x five days.
As mentioned prior , at the time of discharge , the patient
afebrile and vital signs stable. The patient ambulating without
difficulty and feeling at baseline. The patient's O2 saturation
is greater than 95% with ambulation. The patient is to follow up
with Dr. Dario in the Land Medical Center with further
outpatient evaluation for GI bleed as potential source of anemia
as well as further cardiac work up including cardiac
catheterization at a later time given troponin leak in the
setting of demand ischemia. The patient was transitioned to all
p.o. regimen.
eScription document: 1-2680060 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: GORGLIONE , JEANNETTE
Attending: DARIO , CHRISTINE
Dictation ID 0250791
D: 9/2/04
T: 9/2/04