996638485 | PUO | 79592041 | | 4813412 | 1/17/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/15/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 9/1/2005
ATTENDING: HALPIN , BRIGETTE MD
ADMISSION DIAGNOSES:
1. Pregnancy at 34 weeks with Di/Di twins , IUFD of one twin.
2. Diabetes.
3. Hypothyroidism.
4. High blood pressure , chronic hypertension.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Nilda Fiddler is a 32-year-old
G1 , P0 who presented to obstetrical triage at 34 weeks' gestation
with mono/Di twins with complaints of decreased fetal movement as
well as cough in the setting of nausea and vomiting. In triage ,
the fetal heart tracing on twin #2 was unable to be obtained , so
an ultrasound was quickly brought and showed that twin #1 had FH
100 to 108 with no evidence of FH in twin #2. Given evidence of
an IUFD and possible fetal distress in twin #2 , she was brought
for a stat cesarean section which was ultimately complicated by
multiple factors.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Chronic hypertension.
2. Hypothyroidism.
3. Hypercholesterolemia.
4. Obesity.
5. Diabetes type II.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: An appendectomy.
MEDICATIONS UPON ADMISSION:
1. Levoxyl 88 mcg p.o. daily.
2. NPH as well as insulin managed via sliding scale as well as
NPH given at night and in the morning.
3. Albuterol p.r.n.
ALLERGIES: Latex leading to a rash. Pineapple leading to GI
distress.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Denied any alcohol , tobacco , or drugs.
FAMILY HISTORY: Diabetes in father and grandmother.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Ms. Nilda Fiddler was immediately brought to
the operating room and underwent an uncomplicated stat cesarean
section within 15 minutes of her arrival to obstetrical triage.
For complete details of the surgery that she underwent , please
see the dictation from that day. The preoperative diagnoses were
bradycardia , twin #1 , in triage; absent fetal cardiac activity in
#2; and 34 weeks gestational age with mo/Di twins. Postoperative
diagnoses were listed as chorioamnionitis , diabetes , and demise
of twin #2. The findings were consistent with a live born male
infant Apgars 5 and 8; a stillborn male infant , Apgars 0 and 0;
and intact placenta and a foul-smelling amniotic fluid with light
meconium in twin #1. There were no complications.
Her postpartum course was highly complicated by several issues
that will be dealt with by system. In short , she suffered a Vfib
arrest in the setting of the DIC , potential sepsis , potential
HELLP syndrome , and was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care
Unit and intubated. Ultimately , she was discharged from the
Medical Intensive Care Unit and was monitored on the labor floor
and then was transferred to postpartum where she continued to
recover and regain function until postoperative day #12 when she
was discharged home with VNA in stable condition. Her issues
will be dealt with by system.
1. Cardiology. Within 3 hours following her for stat cesarean
section , she presented with acute onset of shortness of breath ,
chest discomfort in the setting of a postpartum hemorrhage.
Telemetry was applied and had evidence of widening QRS complexes ,
and ultimately , she went into Vfib arrest with pulseless
electrical activity. She underwent aggressive resuscitation in
the form of 2 shocks with epinephrine following the code blue.
She was brought back to the operating room where Chem-7 revealed
potassium of 7 which may have been the etiology of this Vfib
arrest. A pulse was obtained following the 2 shocks and
epinephrine , and she was intubated to clear her airway. She was
then transferred to the medical intensive care unit where cardiac
enzymes were followed for 4 total sets and were found to be
grossly positive. The impression of her positive cardiac enzymes
that did trend downwords was that it was secondary to the
aggressive chest compressions and were felt not likely to lead to
significant myocardial injury. An echocardiogram that was
obtained on postoperative day #2 while she was admitted to the
Medical Intensive Care Unit revealed no evidence of focal wall
motion abnormalities and showed that the overall left ventricular
function was normal with an EF of 55%. Of note , throughout her
MICU admission , she was tachycardic to 120s to 140s , and this
was ascribed to her marked amounts of postpartum hemorrhage in
the setting of possible chorioamnionitis with sepsis. This
tachycardia resolved by postoperative day #6 , and by
postoperative day #12 , she was no longer tachycardia with a heart
rate in the 80's.
Her blood pressure while in the initial postpartum period was
maintained in the normal range , began to become elevated by
postoperative day #8 , and she was started on postoperative day
#10 on her labetalol 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. This controlled her
hypertension throughout the remainder of her hospital course , and
she was discharged home on labetalol.
2. Hematology. Following her stat cesarean section , she
underwent a postpartum hemorrhage with an estimated hemorrhage of
5-6 L of blood from her vagina. This dissection itself had only
700 cc blood loss. At this time , her fibrinogen was appreciated
to be 78 and her coags were markedly elevated. In the setting of
DIC , she underwent an aggressive product resuscitation and
ultimately she received 20 units of packed red blood cells , 7
units of fresh frozen plasma , 3 pools of platelets , 1200 mcg of
activated factor 7A , 2 units of cryoprecipitate , 4 units of 5%
albumin , and 1 bag of Hespan within a timeframe of 3 to 6 hours.
With this aggressive resuscitation , her hematocrit dropped to as
low as 26.4 , but we within 2 hours , had increased to 61.3.
Acutely following this episode after her aggressive
resuscitation , her fibrinogen increased from its low of 87 to
337. Her DIC continued to be low-grade , even after being
discharged from the Medical Intensive Care Unit. For this
reason , she was monitored on the labor floor for an additional
day postoperative day #4 , and her coagulation studies ranged from
an INR of 1.2 to 1.4. When she was admitted to postpartum , her
INR was 1.1 , and the day before discharge from the hospital , her
coagulation studies were found to be normal with an INR of 1.1
and fibrinogen of 377.
Her platelets became an area of concern when she presented with a
platelet level that was found to be fluctuating between 90 and
185. In the initial presentation after her postpartum
hemorrhage. Her platelets while in the Medical Intensive Care
Unit went to as low as 57 , and this was felt to be possibly a
component of her HELLP syndrome versus dilution from her blood
product resuscitation also part of her DIC consumptive
coagulopathy. Although her DIC consumptive coagulopathy had
evidence that it had resolved , her platelets remained low and
reached another low postoperative #7 when they became 69. A
hematology consult was obtained to evaluate the possible causes
of her low platelets , and she underwent an extensive evaluation
including a negative anticardiolipin and a negative lupus
anticoagulant. The impression was one of low platelets secondary
to shock liver in addition to DIC in addition to dilution with
marked amounts of blood products , especially in the setting of
the hematocrit ranging from the 49 to 50 range at that time. Her
platelets continued to improve throughout the hospital course and
her platelets upon discharge were 144 and had trended up from the
low of 69.
Her hematocrit initially was found to be very high , upon
presentation at 51. This was consistent with hemoconcentration
with a trough to as low as 26 while in the Medical Intensive Care
Unit. Following her resuscitation , it went to as high as 61. On
postoperative day #7 , however , it dropped from 46 to 40 and then
dropped again to 37.5 upon repeat check. This was of concern but
2 subsequent hematocrits were stable in the 39 range. Her final
hematocrit on the day of discharge was 39.5. This dropping
hematocrit was discovered in the setting of a rectus muscle
hematoma that will be dealt with elsewhere in the dictation but
her hematocrit was stable upon discharge.
3. GI. Upon presentation , Ms. Fiddler had evidence of increasing
LFTs. While in the Medical Intensive Care Unit , she was found to
have an AST of 177 , ALT of 124 , and total bilirubin of 6.2.
These elevated liver enzymes in the setting of her low platelets
was suspicious for possible HELLP syndrome. These LFTs continued
to improve with the AST and ALT dropping down to the normal
limits. Upon discharge , she was appreciated to have an ALT of 37
and AST of 48. Her bilirubin , however , continued to increase
from 6.2 to as high as 11.2. In the setting of her increasing
bilirubin while the other LFTs continued to improve , a GI consul
was obtained , and she underwent a right upper quadrant ultrasound
two times , once while on the labor floor and once while on the
postpartum floor. Both of these revealed a normal liver , normal
biliary tree , as well as normal-sized spleen. In the setting of
a normal nonobstructive picture , the GI consult had the
impression that the increased bilirubin was secondary to her
shock liver as well as the multiple blood transfusions and
possible sepsis. They were confident that this would continued
to improve but would likely take 2 to 3 weeks. Upon discharge ,
her total bilirubin had begun to decrease to 8.2. She did
manifest evidence of jaundice that was improving through the
hospital course.
On postoperative day #9 , Ms. Fiddler developed a marked increase in
her amylase and lipase. This was checked in the setting of
increasing right upper quadrant pain that ultimately resolved.
Her lipase was elevated to as high as 438 to 474. GI was again
reconsulted and had the impression that she did not suffer from
pancreatitis given that she had no nausea or vomiting , was
tolerating a regular diet , and had resolved abdominal pain. They
felt that this was likely secondary to post-surgical change and
was not an aggressive process that may need further treatment.
An abdominal pelvic CT also demonstrated a normal pancreas
without any evidence of stranding or pseudocyst formation.
The overall impression of the Obstetrics team was that her
constellation of acute-onset DIC associated with
hyperbilirubinemia and low platelets was all consistent with a
potential diagnosis of acute fatty liver of pregnancy. This
diagnosis is one that can be best made by a liver biopsy and
discussions with the GI Service revealed that they did not feel
strongly that she needed a liver biopsy. The GI Service was
skeptical with regard to the diagnosis of acute fatty liver of
pregnancy despite the clinical hallmarks being manifest in this
patient. They felt as if her symptoms could be adequately
explained by the degree of shock liver and postpartum hemorrhage
that she experienced. It was unclear as to whether or not she
had acute fatty liver of pregnancy , but given the risk of
recurrence , she will be counseled as an outpatient with regard to
future pregnancies and management of these pregnancies , given her
history of potential acute fatty liver of pregnancy.
4. Incision. On postoperative day #10 , she developed a dark
blood ooze from a 2-mm portion on the right aspect of her
Pfannenstiel incision. This was concerning for a possible
subcutaneous hematoma. So an abdominopelvic CT was obtained on
postoperative day #10 that showed evidence of an 8 x 5 cm right
rectus hematoma that may have had an area of tracking through the
fascia into the subcutaneous space. It was felt that this could
undergo dressing daily , and would ultimately seal up and stop
bleeding. She was discharged home with VNA daily dressing
changes and plan to reassess the incision at her followup
postpartum appointment in 4 days from the date of discharge. Of
note , this right rectus hematoma was diagnosed in the setting of
a drop in her hematocrit from 46 to 40. Her hematocrit remained
stable for 2 additional days at 39.5.
5. Infectious disease. On postoperative day #0 , following her
stat cesarean section. She had a T-Max of 101.9 in the Medical
Intensive Care Unit , and ampicillin , gentamicin , and clindamycin
as well as levoflox ofloxacin were started on IV and was
continued for 6 days until ultimately her blood cultures grew out
no organism. The urine cultures were negative and her placenta
culture also demonstrated only staphylococcus coagulase negative
with a Gram's stain showing no organisms. She remained afebrile
for the remainder of her hospital course and was not discharged
on antibiotics.
6. Endocrine. Initially following her Medical Intensive Care
Unit admission , her blood sugar remained low throughout the day
despite her eating habits. Her blood sugars would get as slow as
the 40s and as high as the 80s. This was perplexing as she was
known to be type 2 diabetic who initially been managed on
metformin prepregnancy. An endocrine consult was obtained. The
concern was for possible addisonian crisis and cord stimulation
test was normal as well as a.m. and p.m. cortisol levels were
checked. These remained within normal limits , and the concern
for possible Sheehan syndrome secondary to her massive postpartum
hemorrhage was largely excluded. A TSH as well as an ACTH level
where both drawn , and her TSH was 1.05 in the normal range and
the ACTH test was 51 , within the normal range. Of note , her
blood sugars did trend up near the end of her hospital course.
On postoperative day #10 , she was found to have fasting sugars in
the 120s. She was restarted on NPH 10 units daily. q.p.m. and
q.a.m. as well as her Humalog sliding scale a.c. She was
discharged home with prescriptions for NPH as well as her Humalog
and will follow her sugars. These will be followed up by her
endocrinologist Dr. Bloomingdale within 4 days of this discharge.
7. Renal. While in the Medical Intensive Care Unit , she
suffered acute renal failure with a creatinine that went as high
as 2.1. This improved to 1.0 upon discharge. Of note , she had a
decreased sodium appreciated on postoperative day #7. Urinary
electrolytes were drawn and fractional excretion of sodium was
appreciated to be 0.32 consistent with prerenal , and the urine
osmolality was 400 consistent with concentrated urine that may or
may not have been consistent with syndrome of inappropriate ADH.
She underwent fluid restriction for 3 days and her sodium
improved from 129 to 134 upon discharge.
8. Pulmonary. Immediately following her Vfib arrest , she was
complaining of severe rather shortness of breath and was
intubated on the first attempt. At this time , intubated and
sedated , she was in the MICU and was extubated on postoperative
day #2. She was transitioned to nasal cannula after being on
FiO2 of 80% and ultimately was discharged home sating 99 to 100%
on room air with a good exercise tolerance.
9. Infant. Their baby boy Gosnell was doing very well upon
discharge. He was followed by the pediatric service at Pagham University Of and was discharged home with them.
10. Neuro. Initially , her mental status in the Medical
Intensive Care Unit would wax and wane. She would be
intermittently disoriented. A head CT was obtained postoperative
day #4 , and this was shown to have no focal abnormalities
although there was some indication that there might have been
some stranding between the white and gray matter consistent with
possible edema. This report was not mentioned in the final
report of the head CT. Upon discharge , her mental status was at
baseline with perfect memory of the event leading up to the stat
cesarean section although she had some difficulty remembering
specifics with regards to her Medical Intensive Care Unit
admission , and the ensuing days. She was alert and oriented to
person , place , and time.
11. Physical therapy. She underwent a physical therapy consult
with the impression of improving physical status and exercise.
She was given exercise strategies that she will continue at home.
She was offered home physical therapy but declined as she
thought the visiting VNA would be adequate and that she was able
to be out of bed with her usual exercise tolerance.
DISPOSITION: On postoperative day #11 , status post her stat
cesarean sections for IUFD with twins and postpartum hemorrhage
DIC , she was discharged home with a plan to follow up in the OB
clinic in 4 days with Dr. Tomoko Franckowiak and Dr. Brigette Halpin
She will also be seen by Dr. Aeling of endocrinology. She will
have daily VNA dressing changes and was instructed to call if she
had any fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , increased bleeding from
the incision or if she had any questions.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2. Levoxyl 75 mcg p.o. daily.
3. Oxycodone 5 to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain.
4. Senna tablets 2 tabs p.o. b.i.d.
5. Simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d.
6. Labetalol 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.
7. NPH 10 units q.a.m. and q.p.m.
8. Humalog sliding scale AC 5-10 units.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. Pregnancy , status post stat cesarean section for IUFD ,
nonreassuring fetal heart tracing.
2. Vfib arrest.
3. DIC.
4. Severe PET/HELLP.
5. Thrombocytopenia.
6. Elevated liver enzymes.
7. Hypothyroidism.
8. A2 gestational diabetes.
Ultimately she was discharged home with low platelets.
Throughout her hospital course , she was appreciated to have
evidence of low platelets on her first CBC upon presentation to
Pagham University Of as well as chest compressions , and a
pulse was once again obtained. In the triage , she was found to
have evidence of a demised twin as well as evidence of a heart
rate of the second twin in the 90's.
eScription document: 5-1030191 HFFocus transcriptionists
Dictated By: LACK , NAOMA
Attending: FRANCISCA AZZIE URBANIAK , M.D. CX64
Dictation ID 1265443
D: 3/15/05
T: 3/15/05