750292300 | PUO | 98573926 | | 072164 | 7/20/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/24/1996 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/9/1996 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: IDIOPATHIC HYPERTROPHY SUBAORTIC STENOSIS. 
RELATED DIAGNOSES: 1 ) INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS. 2 ) SYNCOPE. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 79 year old Russian speaking female who had had a history of exertional chest pain and no previous documented coronary artery disease. 
In July 1995 , patient was admitted to Pagham University Of for symptomatic bradycardia. 
She ruled out for a myocardial infarction at that time. 
Echocardiogram revealed left ventricular hypertrophy and left ventricular cavity obstruction with systolic outflow tract gradient of 20-30 mm of mercury. 
In September 1995 , patient presented to the Bea Duna Medical Center with complaints of exertional chest pain with onset after one flight of stairs. 
She was started on Atenolol. 
Echocardiogram at that time revealed asymmetric septal hypertrophy , anterior movement of mitral valve during systole , and peak left ventricular outflow tract gradient of 58 mm of mercury. 
This was consistent with the diagnosis of idiopathic hypertrophic subaortic stenosis. 
Patient was continued on Atenolol , however , given her history of symptomatic bradycardia , her dose could not be increased. 
One week prior to admission , the patient noted onset of substernal chest pressure described as pain in her anterior chest radiating to her jaw. 
This was usually experienced in the late morning with no obvious relation to exertion usually accompanied by light headedness. 
On the day of admission , patient awoke without pain , however , in the a.m. , she again noted onset of substernal chest pressure associated with light headedness. 
This lasted for a period of about thirty minutes after which time she had a syncopal event. 
The patient fell on her right hip without evidence of head trauma with brief loss of consciousness. 
Within seconds , she was awake and conversant. 
EMT was alerted and she was brought to Pagham University Of Emergency Department for further evaluation and management. 
She denied any significant shortness of breath , fever , chills , and sweats. 
PAST MEDICAL/SURGICAL HISTORY: Insulin dependent diabetes times twenty years , status post pancreatectomy , IHSS , and angina. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. , Nifedipine XL 30 mg p.o. q.d. , Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , aspirin , and 30 units NPH insulin q.a.m. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Patient was originally from the Cadence O Lo , former teacher , married , and lived with husband. 
There was no significant use of alcohol or tobacco. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , patient was a pleasant elderly female in no acute distress. 
She was afebrile with a heart rate of 64 , blood pressure 114/68 , respiratory rate 16 , and oxygen saturation 97% on room air. 
HEENT: Examination was notable for anisocoria , right pupil status post previous surgery , and oropharynx clear without lesions. 
NECK: Supple without lymphadenopathy , no jugular venous distention , carotids were without bruits , and firm mobile mass on anterior neck. 
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm , S1 , S2 , and III/VI late systolic murmur best heard at the left lower sternal border. 
ABDOMEN: Benign. 
EXTREMITIES: Without clubbing , cyanosis , or edema. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Examination was non-focal. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: CBC showed a hematocrit of 43.1 , white blood count 8.6 , platelets 160 , electrolytes within normal limits with a potassium of 4.7 , BUN/creatinine 34/0.9 , liver function tests within normal limits , INR 1.1 , and CK 68. Urinalysis showed a specific gravity of 1.006 , pH 5.5 , and 1+ bacteria , chest x-ray with evidence of tortuous aorta but no acute pulmonary or cardiac disease , and ECG showed a sinus rhythm , left ventricular hypertrophy , early repolarization in V1 to V3 , T wave inversion in lead I , first degree AV block , otherwise with normal intervals , and axis minus 39. HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient is a 79 year old female with a history of IHSS and insulin dependent diabetes who now presented with a syncopal episode accompanied by substernal chest pressure. 
Given the patient's history of chest pain , she was ruled out for myocardial infarction with flat CK and cardiac troponin I of 0.0. 
She was placed on cardiac monitor. 
She was noted to have normal sinus rhythm at a rate in the fifties to sixties increasing as high as the nineties with exertion. 
As a result , the patient's beta blocker dose was increased as tolerated with close monitoring for possible bradycardia. 
Given the likelihood that her symptoms could be related to decreased outflow secondary to IHSS , the Pacemaker Service was consulted. 
It was felt that the patient would benefit from placement of a permanent pacemaker which would possibly be therapeutic both for IHSS as well as allowing further titration of beta blocker for her exertional angina. 
The procedure was discussed with the patient and her family in detail and her family requested one additional evening to discuss whether or not to proceed with pacemaker placement. 
She remained on cardiac monitor and remained asymptomatic throughout her hospital course. 
Clinically , the patient remained stable. 
She remained on cardiac monitor given her history of daily episodes of syncope and chest pain over the last week prior to admission. 
Her blood sugar was followed closely with fingersticks q.i.d. and she was replaced with sliding scale Regular insulin in addition to her regular NPH dose. 
On 3/7/96 , the patient underwent placement of a permanent pacemaker , mode DDDR , via her left axillary vein without complication. 
The patient remained stable overnight and placement of pacemaker was confirmed with chest x-ray. 
DISPOSITION: Patient is discharged to home in stable condition. 
She was instructed to notify her medical doctor for any worsening of chest pain , light headedness , or pain at the pacemaker site. 
In addition , she was instructed to check the incision site for sign of redness as well as fever and she was told not to shower for four days status post pacemaker placement. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. q.8h. 
, and Procardia XL 30 mg p.o. q.d. 
She will resume her previous insulin dosing. 
FOLLOW-UP: Patient will follow-up with her primary medical doctor , Dr. Destree , and her Cardiologist , Dr. Kittell She will follow-up , in addition , with Dr. Dominguez in the Pacemaker Clinic in approximately one month. 
Dictated By: CHRISTIN G. FRERICKS , M.D. MM39 Attending: CARA NEVA KENEKHAM , M.D. WA5 XJ857/8512 Batch: 90326 Index No. STYFLH7UIU D: 11/21/96 T: 7/1/96 CC: 1. CARA C. BARNABA , M.D. HL86 2. STACIE C. HALECHKO , M.D. UJ97