756484975 | PUO | 14374811 | | 814056 | 11/22/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/5/1992 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/24/1992 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. Asthma exacerbation. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 2. Coronary artery disease. 
3. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
4. Sleep apnea. 
5. Hypertension. 
6. Obesity. 
7. Tobacco history. 
HISTORY: A 61-year-old female with a long tobacco history of COPD , and recently diagnosed sleep apnea is admitted with an asthma flare. 
In 1981 , she had a DVT which required IVC filter placement. 
In 1983 , she had a nonQ-wave MI and cath at that time showed an 80% proximal LAD stenosis , 30% RCA stenosis treated medically. 
In October of 1991 , the patient had an exercise test in which she went four minutes in 28 seconds , stopped because of fatigue and there were no diagnostic EKG changes. 
PFT's at that time were reportedly normal , although details are not available at this time. 
In July of 1991 , further evaluation of the patient's dyspnea included multiple normal EKG's , a low probable VQ scan. 
She was treated with steroids and inhalers ( Bronchosol ) with good relief. 
In September 1991 , the patient had recurrent dyspnea on exertion. 
She ruled out for an MI at I Warho Hospital . 
Repeat Cath showed an LAD stenosis of 40% , RCA of 80% and an ejection fraction of 73%. 
She was discharged on medical management. 
In February of 1991 , the patient was diagnosed with "asthma"/COPD and had another rule out MI for dyspnea. 
At that time , she had another ETT in which she went four minutes and 45 seconds , stopped secondary to chest pain , however , the EKG was nondiagnostic. 
Thallium showed fixed anterior defects ( although the effects overlying breast tissue cannot be ruled out ). 
Bronchoscopy showed mild bronchitis and , since that time , she was discharged on a prednisone taper which had gradually been tapered down to 11 mg a day. 
Of note , the patient also has been diagnosed with sleep apnea for which she is on nasal CPAP. 
She sleeps in a chair due to orthopnea and occasionally has paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. 
The most recent pulmonary function tests ( January 1992 ) showed an FEV1 of 1.76 , an FVC of 2.5 , ratio of 70% , DLCO of 28.3. 
A twenty-four holter was negative for arrhythmias. 
Exercise test at that time , she went nine minutes and had no ST changes. 
Thallium images were again unremarkable. 
One week prior to admission , the patient developed symptoms of upper respiratory infection including sneezing , rhinorrhea , headache and had increased shortness of breath. 
Steroids were increased as were nebulizers with symptomatic improvement. 
Over the five days prior to admission , the patient had increasing shortness of breath , wheezing worse at night. 
She denies fevers , chills , sweats , nausea , vomiting , chest pain , abdominal pain , cough , rash or joint pain. 
In the Emergency Room , the patient was in marked respiratory distress for which she was given nebulizer and begun on IV Solu- Medrol. 
Peak flow at that time was 180. 
Past medical history , COPD , coronary artery disease status post nonQ-wave MI 1983. 
Obesity. 
Sleep apnea. 
Allergic rhinitis. 
Status post cholecystectomy. 
Benign breast cyst resection. 
History of labyrinthitis. 
History of Sjogren's disease with a positive anti DNA antibody. 
History of DVT status post IVC filter in 1983. 
ALLERGIES: Sulfa has caused swollen mouth , Theophylline causes jitteriness. 
MEDICATIONS: Albuterol nebulizers t.i.d.; Kay-Ciel 8 mEq q.d.; Prednisone 11 mg q.d.; Guanfacine 600 mg b.i.d.; Verapamil 240 SR q.d.; Lasix 40 mg b.i.d. ( q.d. if feels okay ). 
Cromolyn nebs q. 6 hours ( rarely uses ); Nasobid inhaler b.i.d.; Ranitidine q. h.s. 
HABITS: Tobacco history , quit approximately two years ago , rare alcohol. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Obese , pleasant female in mild shortness of breath initially but responded to nebs and steroids. 
Otopharynx was clear. 
There was no thrush. 
NECK: Supple. 
Carotids 2+. CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and rhythm , very distant. 
LUNGS: Decreased breath sounds at bases , scant wheezes , no crackles. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender. 
EXTREMITIES: Obese , no marked edema , although difficult to assess secondary to obesity. 
SKIN: No visible lesion. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Grossly within normal limits. 
LABORATORY DATA: Potassium 3.6 , BUN 16 , creatinine 0.9 , white count 15.1 , urinalysis negative. 
Chest X-ray , no significant disease except for a question of mild CHF changes. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was treated with IV steroids , nebulizers , oxygen , and did quite well. 
The trigger for her asthma remains illusive. 
She underwent an esophageal acid study to rule out subclinical aspiration ( results pending at the time of discharge ). 
There was no infectious component to her exacerbation detected , although preceding viral illness cannot be excluded. 
The patient was treated with subcutaneous Heparin for DVT risks. 
On hospital day number four , the patient was converted to Prednisone without complications. 
She had no episodes of chest pain and there was no evidence for ischemic etiology. 
At the time of discharge , the patient's peak flows were greater than 500 and her lung exam had cleared remarkably. 
She is transferred to Nyno Ter Paou Medical Center for respiratory rehabilitation on the following medications: Aspirin one tablet p.o. q.d.; Atrovent puffers two puffs q. 4 hours; Beconase nasal inhaler two puffs q. 6 hours; Heparin 10 , 000 units subcutaneous b.i.d.; Pepcid 20 mg q. h.s.; Prednisone 40 mg p.o. q. d. ( taper as tolerated ); Albuterol nebulized treatments q. 4 hours as needed; Isordil 10 mg p.o. t.i.d.; Verapamil SR 240 mg p.o. q.d.; Lasix 40 mg p.o. q. a.m. 
p.r.n.; Beclovent neb six puffs p.o. q.i.d. 
ADDENDUM: Regarding the patient's esophagram results , the patient had a 48-hour esophageal pH monitor which showed that the patient has reflux episodes and parameters which are within normal limits; however , 4/7 cough episodes are correlated with the patient's cough and asthma flares are possibly related to her reflux symptoms; however , the study was not completely diagnostic. 
Benefit from anti-reflux medications such as Reglan on a diagnostic and therapeutic trial , we should also consider further gastroesophageal reflux studies such as manometry as an outpatient. 
Dictated By: VIVIANA NEWBERT , M.D. WEAGRAFF , KATHLINE G. TE482/0100 / CARA NEVA KENEKHAM , M.D. WA5 D: 5/12/28 T: 8/6/92 Batch: Y217 Report: OP165U9 T: