745216306 | PUO | 88775779 | | 5951185 | 5/16/2006 12:00:00 AM | ? 
MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/11/2006 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/20/2006 ATTENDING: TROJAN , LUISE M.D. CHIEF COMPLAINT: Chest and left arm pain , and left arm paresthesias. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 47-year-old female with a past medical history , which includes HIV positive , hepatitis C positive , seizures , and neuropathy , who presented complaining of left hand paresthesias followed by left hand pain that marches proximally up her left arm and affecting her left shoulder and chest. 
Along with these symptoms , she has associated shortness of breath , palpitations , lightheadedness , diaphoresis , and nausea. 
The patient notes that these symptoms have been occurring approximately five times per week over the past two months. 
She has notified her PCP of these events , however , the etiology has never been identified. 
Of note , the patient states that these symptoms have increased in frequency since having two syncopal events , which occurred three days prior to admission. 
Regarding syncope , the patient recalls her first loss of consciousness episode occurring three days ago in her bedroom. 
There were no antecedent symptoms. 
She came back to consciousness while on the ground , called out for help and her daughter came immediately. 
There was no witnessed seizure activity , no postictal confusion , no tongue trauma nor was there any incontinence. 
A second episode of syncope occurred two days prior to arrival while the patient was standing in the bathroom. 
There was some preceding lightheadedness this time. 
The post-event characteristics were the same. 
Again , the patient was found by her son when she called out for help. 
The patient denies prior history of syncopal events , however , she does have a lifelong history of seizures and has not been taking her Keppra for approximately a year , as her prescription has ran out and she has failed to keep follow-up appointments with her primary neurologist , Dr. Mateja Both the patient and her daughter note that she usually has postictal confusion and that these syncopal events did not fit that description. 
Furthermore , these episodes did not feel like her occasional hypoglycemic episodes. 
Unfortunately , the patient's blood sugars were not obtained during these syncopal events. 
Of note , the patient recently started Flexeril to treat chronic low back pain. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient admits stable three-pillow orthopnea , but new paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , no lower extremity edema , weight loss or increased abdominal girth. 
The patient has stable four-block ambulation limited by dyspnea. 
She has had notable weight loss as she has decreased in dress size from 18-14 over the past nine months. 
She denies fevers or chills. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: HIV positive , drug-seeking behavior , parotitis , migraine headaches , anxiety and panic , depression , hepatitis C , seizures , neuropathy , pancreatitis , abnormal Pap smear , diabetes mellitus , cerebral aneurysm , herpes simplex type 1 , and chronic low back pain. 
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Flexeril 5 mg daily , clonazepam 1 mg q.i.d. , Truvada one tablet daily , Norvir 1400 mg b.i.d. , glyburide 5 mg q.a.m. and 2.5 mg q.p.m. , Lomotil one tablet q.i.d. p.r.n. , methadone 150 mg daily , Zofran 4 mg daily p.r.n. , Percocet 325 mg/5 mg tablets one tablet q.6 h. 
p.r.n. , Zantac 150 mg b.i.d. , Zoloft 100 mg q.a.m. , and trazodone 100 mg nightly. 
ALLERGIES: Compazine , Bactrim , didanosine , gabapentin , cephalosporins , penicillin , clindamycin , stavudine , Tylenol No.3 , levofloxacin , clindamycin , tetanus , IV contrast , ibuprofen , abacavir and ritonavir. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is from Irv Lerlong She is living with her daughter and son. 
No prior tobacco or smoking history. 
She has a prior history of drinking alcohol and IV drug use. 
Her father had an MI at age 74. 
Her mother had coronary artery disease at age 76. 
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 97.8 , blood pressure 172/80 , heart rate 82 , respiratory rate 20 , and saturating 100% on room air. 
This is a middle-aged woman appearing older than stated age , complaining of left hand pain , but otherwise appears comfortable. 
She has a disconjugate gaze , has only light vision in her left eye. 
Sclerae are anicteric. 
Oropharynx is benign. 
She had no oral ulcers or thrush. 
Neck is supple , without cervical lymphadenopathy , no JVD , and no carotid bruits. 
Lungs are clear to auscultation. 
Regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 , no murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
Abdomen was obese , soft , nondistended , and nontender with questionable splenic fullness , no clubbing , cyanosis or edema. 
She had a 4 x 4 ecchymosis on her left shoulder and a 2 x 2 scab over her left elbow. 
The soft tissue extending from the left shoulder to left elbow was tender to palpation as was the left chest. 
She had decreased sensation of bilateral lower extremities and left. 
Aside from a disconjugate gaze , cranial nerves were intact. 
Motor exam was intact. 
Gait was slightly wide-based , but sufficient without cane. 
Negative Romberg , negative pronator drift , and no dysmetria on finger-to-nose bilateral , and deep tendon reflexes were 2+ throughout. 
ADMISSION LABORATORY VALUES: Sodium 138 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 103 , CO2 28 , BUN 13 , creatinine 0.7 , glucose 179 , calcium 9.2 , magnesium 1.6 , ALT 35 , AST 34 , alkaline phosphatase 57 , CK 51 , CK-MB 1.4 , troponin less than assay , white count of 3.35 , hemoglobin 12.6 , hematocrit 36.7 , PT 14.4 , INR 1.1 , and PTT 29.5. 
ADMISSION DATA: Chest x-ray was within normal limits. 
EKG was normal sinus rhythm without ischemic change. 
CAT scan of the head was within normal limits. 
Left shoulder and arm plain films were negative for fracture or dislocation. 
IMPRESSION: This is a 47-year-old female with a history significant for HIV , diabetes , questionable cerebral aneurysm , and seizure disorder ( not taking Keppra for the past year ) , who recently had two syncopal events without prodrome and without postictal state ( thus unlikely a seizure in etiology ) , who presented for evaluation of left arm paresthesias and chest pain , with associated diaphoresis , shortness of breath and nausea , which has been intermittently occurring over the past two months. 
During this admission , the patient had frequent recurrences of her left arm and chest pain symptoms , which were related to syncopal events. 
Thus , the medical team does not think that these two issues are related. 
The patient underwent an extensive syncopal evaluation , however , the etiology was never identified. 
The etiology of the patient's left arm and chest symptoms and syndromes also was not identified during this admission , however , the medical team suspects it may be related to a cervical spinous process , potentially arthritis , disc herniation or nerve root impingement. 
Please see below for more details. 
The remainder of the dictation will be divided into system: 1. Cardiovascular: The patient underwent an extensive cardiovascular evaluation , all of which was negative. 
a. Pump: Given the patient's history of HIV and taking antiretroviral , there was a concern about associated cardiomyopathy. 
Echocardiogram that was performed was completely within normal limits. 
The patient did not exhibit signs of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or orthopnea during this admission. 
Dyspnea on exertion could be related to decondition. 
b. Rhythm: The patient's telemetry history on 11/8/2006 was notable for a nonsustained 5-beat run of wide complex tachycardia with rates in the 150's. 
This was immediately followed by a nonsustained 4-beat run of narrow complex tachycardia. 
Cardiology consult was placed to review the telemetry strip and to assess for referral to EP Service for potential AICD. 
Given the negative echocardiogram , the Card Service wanted to rule out ischemia-induced arrhythmia , so a MIBI was performed , and the patient was started on low-dose beta-blocker and aspirin. 
The adenosine MIBI was within normal limits. 
The telemetry strip was reviewed by the EP Service and diagnosed the patient with nonsustained SVT with aberrancy. 
The Card Service then advised that there was no need for AICD. 
They stated that if tolerated , the beta-blocker could be continued and that the patient should be set up as an outpatient for a loop recorder. 
This will be coordinated through the patient's PCP. 
Of note , after starting metoprolol 12.5 b.i.d. , the patient had occasional bradycardia to the high 40's. 
Thus , it was determined that this medication should be discontinued as it may be impairing the patient's exercise tolerance. 
c. Ischemia: Coronary disease risk factors include diabetes and family history. 
She ruled out for a myocardial infarction , had no ischemic change on her EKG , and had a negative MIBI. 
No further workup for coronary artery disease was indicated. 
A lipid panel was completely within normal limits and suggesting treatment was not indicated. 
d. Miscellaneous: On 6/10/2006 , the patient was evaluated for one of her left arm and chest pain events. 
The patient was noted to be diaphoretic and complained of nausea and shortness of breath. 
The symptoms occurred while the patient was lying in bed. 
Upon arrival by the team , her blood pressure was 90/56 , heart rate was 56 , she had poor pallor , was diaphoretic , and described chest pain radiating up and down her arm. 
EKG in telemetry during the event was normal sinus rhythm with any acute ST or T-wave changes. 
The event spontaneously resolved in less than 15 minutes without medical intervention. 
2. Neuro: The patient has a history of convulsive seizures and has been noncompliant with Keppra for the past 12 months because she failed to keep neuro appointment with Dr. Wantuck and has been unable to obtain refills. 
Per the patient , her recent syncopal events were without prodrome and without postictal state. 
Thus , were unlikely prior seizures and unlikely seizure in focus. 
An EEG was performed during this admission and demonstrated no definite focal or epileptiform features. 
Keppra was restarted at 250 mg b.i.d. with a goal to increase to 500 mg b.i.d. after 7 days and to 750 mg after another week. 
There was a question of a history of cerebral aneurysm , diagnosed at an outside facility , which was never confirmed by Totin Hospital And Clinic imaging. 
MRI of the brain and MRA of the head and neck obtained this admission was negative for hemorrhage , mass , edema , hydrocephalus , infarction , and negative for abnormal enhancement. 
There was no aneurysm high-flow AVM or stenosis found , and MRA of the neck had no significant abnormality. 
The patient's neurologist , Dr. Wantuck , was aware of this admission. 
A follow-up appointment has been made. 
3. Endocrine: History of diabetes type II , hemoglobin A1c of 6.1 , reflects excellent outpatient glycemic control , however , the patient reports becoming diaphoretic with normal glycemic levels between 80 and 100. 
Given recent weight loss without glyburide dose adjustment , the medical team decreased glyburide to 2.5 mg daily for the patient to begin upon discharge. 
During this admission , the all oral agents were held and the patient was treated with the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of insulin protocol. 
4. Infectious disease: The patient has a history of HIV positive , CD4 count on 11/21/2006 was 217. 
The viral load was less than assay. 
The patient continued on Truvada and Lexiva. 
The patient complained of dysuria on 7/26/2006. 
Urinalysis was ordered , but symptoms resolved before specimen could be sent the lab. 5. Pain: History of chronic pain and lumbar spine herniations. 
The methadone dose of 155 mg was confirmed with the outpatient clinic. 
No additional regular narcotics were given during this admission. 
6. Heme: The patient has chronic pancytopenia. 
She has a normocytic normochromic anemia with normal iron studies , B12 and folate , and a low reticulocyte index consistent with anemia of chronic disease , likely from HIV immunosuppression. 
7. Miscellaneous: The patient was screened by the Physical Therapy Service who recommended a home safety evaluation. 
This will be coordinated to the Hollankfre Visiting Nurses Association. 
Given the liability and predictability of events , the team implemented a 24-hour urine collection to assess for pheochromocytoma. 
The results of the studies are pending at the time of this discharge. 
The patient may have autonomic dysregulation as part of her diabetes. 
Alternatively , the medical team speculates that the patient may have cervical spinal arthritis , lumbar herniation or nerve root impingement contributing to these symptoms. 
Of note , the patient states that these episodes had occurred more frequently inpatient and they were at home. 
It was until the day of discharge that it was noted that the patient was not receiving her Klonopin 1 mg q.i.d. as she had prior to admission. 
In fact , she has only received three doses of Klonopin over a six-day period. 
It is unclear what role anxiety is playing into these events. 
On the day of discharge , the patient stated that she was making arrangements to see an orthopedic specialist at Cloud Hospital for evaluation of her cervical spine. 
FINAL DIAGNOSES: 1. Syncope , not otherwise specified. 
2. Left arm pain/left chest pain/left arm paresthesias ( not otherwise specified ). 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Ecotrin 81 mg daily , clonazepam 1 mg q.6 h. 
p.r.n. , Imodium one to two tablets q.i.d. p.r.n. for diarrhea , Truvada one tablet p.o. daily , Lexiva 1400 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg daily , Keppra 500 mg b.i.d. for 14 doses and then 750 mg b.i.d. indefinitely , methadone 155 mg daily , Zantac 150 mg b.i.d. , Zoloft 300 mg daily , trazodone 100 mg at bedtime p.r.n. , and Zofran 4 mg daily p.r.n. for nausea. 
MEDICAL FOLLOW UP: On 10/24/2006 , the patient is scheduled to see her PCP , Dr. Jona Byron On 10/21/2006 , she is scheduled to see her psychiatrist , Dr. Latasha Hoisl On 4/8/2006 , she is scheduled to see her Infectious Disease , Dr. Ghislaine Rafus On 7/6/2006 , she is scheduled to see her neurologist , Dr. Irwin Mateja In addition , the patient is going to be followed by the Jer Palm Co VNA who will do a medication reconciliation and home safety evaluation. 
SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Take medications as listed , clarify discrepancies with your PCP. 
This means stop taking Flexeril , ____ glyburide has been changed to 2.5 mg , and low-dose aspirin has been started. 
2. If you faint again , you should return to the ER for evaluation. 
3. If your chest pain symptoms recur and persist longer than the typical course , call your PCP and/or return to the emergency room. 
4. Make an appointment with the Cloud Hospital to evaluate the cause of her left arm symptoms. 
5. Check your blood sugars before meals and at bedtime , record and bring your results to your follow-up appointment. 
SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE PCP: 1. Please arrange for a loop monitor. 
2. Follow up on a 24-hour urine studies assessing for pheochromocytoma. 
3. Adjust the patient's diabetes management as needed. 
eScription document: 5-3125043 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: HOLLWAY , TABATHA Attending: TROJAN , LUISE Dictation ID 6539644 D: 10/15/06 T: 10/15/06