427401895 | PUO | 15815753 | | 585219 | 4/22/2002 12:00:00 AM | CHRONIC HEART FAILURE , HIP FRACTURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/16/2002 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 9/6/2002 ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: LEFT HIP FRACTURE. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1. FAT EMBOLI SYNDROME. 
2. CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE. 
3. DECUBITUS ULCERS. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Julias is a 68-year-old man who came in with a chief complaint of hip pain after a mechanical fall. 
The patient had been hospitalized in 4/17 for ischemic right toes requiring debridement and amputation. 
At that time , his hospital course was complicated by a non-Q wave MI. Cardiology have recommended medical management with Lopressor at that time and an echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 45%. 
Dobutamine MIBI revealed a severe fixed perfusion defect in the inferoposterior and inferoseptal left ventricle without any peri-infarct ischemia. 
Ejection fraction by MIBI imaging was 26% in contrast to the echo results. 
The patient was ultimately discharged on Lopressor , however , she stopped taking the Lopressor for unclear reasons. 
For the few months prior to admission , he developed increasing dyspnea on exertion with paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and increasing pedal edema , as well as nocturia , however , denied any orthopnea , any chest pain , fevers , melena , bright red blood per rectum or palpitations. 
A few days prior to admission , the patient developed a dry cough and some rhinorrhea. 
On the morning of admission , the patient sustained a mechanical fall while trying to retrieve a newspaper. 
He had no light-headedness , palpitations , pain in his chest , nausea or vomiting , sweating or change in vision or sensory symptoms prior to or after the fall. 
The patient fell onto his left side and immediately developed left-sided leg and hip pain for which she presented to the emergency room at I Warho Hospital . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease , cardiomyopathy ( ischemic ) , peripheral vascular disease ,  status post amputation of right-sided toes , status post right femoral to PT avascularization , diabetes type II , status post CVA ,  hypertension. 
MEDICATIONS: HCTZ 50 mg p.o. q.d. , enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Zestril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d. , multivitamins , cough medicine p.r.n. 
ALLERGIES: Aminoglycosides , unknown reaction. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has a history of smoking one pack per day x40 years , quit five years prior to admission. 
He has one drink of liquor per day , lives at home alone in Mon Chand Long Boise , and is in the insurance business. 
Mother died at 50 of a heart attack. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Afebrile , temperature 97.3 ,  heart rate 106 , blood pressure 162/77 ,  oxygenation 94% on room air. 
GENERAL: He was alert and oriented. 
LUNGS: Clear. 
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. 
PELVIS: Stable. 
His left lower extremity had well-healed scars from donor site for bypass grafting , strong dopplerable PT and DP pulses. 
His left leg was externally rotated. 
Sensation was intact to light touch. 
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 135 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 102 , bicarb 19 , BUN 56 , creatinine 2.5. 
White count 12 ,  hematocrit 33 , platelets 388. 
PTT 40.5 , INR 1.2. 
EKG showed sinus tach at 102 , with occasional PVCs , normal axis , normal intervals ,  no evidence of ischemia. 
Chest x-ray showed bilateral pulmonary edema. 
X-rays of his left pelvis and femur revealed fracture of the left intertrochanter and subtrochanteric fracture with lesser trochanteric fracture intact by 3 cm , less than five degrees angulation. 
His femoral head was reduced. 
IMPRESSION: A 68-year-old man with significant cardiac history and vascular disease , status post left hip fracture with mechanical fall , with pulmonary edema noted on chest x-ray. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Cardiovascular - Initially , the patient was to be admitted to the orthopedic service with medicine consult for wrist stratification. 
However , the patient was transferred to the medicine service for further evaluation and management. 
The patient was noted to have a troponin leak although CK enzymes remained negative for ischemia. 
He had a MIBI performed which revealed an unchanged fixed defect. 
He remained in sinus tach with occasional PVCs and runs of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia lasting 3-4 beats at a time throughout his admission. 
Sinus tach was attributed pain and discomfort , possibly with element of hypoxia contributing as well. 
A troponin leak was attributed to strain particularly in the setting of his tachycardia. 
He was started on beta blocker , Ace inhibitor and continued on an aspirin. 
He was aggressively diuresed with afterload reduction. 
He was titrated upward as noted. 
2. Pulmonary - The patient's crackles persisted on lung exam after aggressive diuresis , prompting performance of a chest CT which revealed an interstitial pattern with peripheral nodularity consistent with fat emboli syndrome , positive component of congestive heart failure and aspiration pneumonia as well. 
The patient was continued on a regimen of Lasix for diuresis and was treated for aspiration pneumonia as noted below. 
His oxygen requirement diminished over a few days and he was maintained on two liters of nasal cannula oxygen at the time of transfer to rehab. 
3. Renal - The patient developed some renal failure in the setting of diuresis , which improved with hydration. 
The patient subsequently tolerated further diuresis with improvement in his creatinine and it is possible that renal failure is due to fat emboli syndrome as well and should improve slowly. 
4. ID - The patient was treated with vancomycin , Flagyl and levofloxacin for presumed aspiration pneumonia , course completed 6/18/02. 
The patient remained afebrile. 
His white blood count on admission and discharge was 12. 5. Neurologically - The patient apparently had baseline mild perfusion. 
The possibly worsened due to the fat embolic syndrome and was at baseline prior to discharge per the patient's daughter. 
6. Heme - The patient was continued on Lovenox 60 mg subcu. 
b.i.d. for prophylaxis against DVT post-hip surgery to continue for six months minimal followed by orthopedic surgery. 
7. GI - The patient developed some diarrhea. 
C. diff. 
cultures were negative to date at the time of discharge. 
The patient was maintained on Nexium prophylaxis in the setting of his anticoagulation. 
8. Endocrine - The patient was restarted on oral hypoglycemics prior to discharge in addition to sliding scale insulin. 
The patient had a Foley and a triple lumen catheter , both of which were removed on 6/18/02. 
The patient was evaluated by plastic surgery for his peripheral vascular disease with ulcers. 
Recommended dry sterile dressings to the right and left foot wound changed q.d. with DuoDerm to the left lower leg wound to be changed q.3 days , with pressure sore prevention. 
9. FEN - The patient was discharged on standing 20 mEq of K-Dur q.d. 
It is likely to be checked q.o.d. to monitor for any further requirements particularly in the setting of his runs of nonsustained V-tach as noted above. 
10. 
Ortho - The patient is followed daily by orthopedic surgery and was discharged with staples on his left lower extremities to be discontinued per orthopedic surgery recommendations in the future. 
11. 
Disposition - The patient was stable for discharge to rehab on 7/28/02. 
He was to follow up with his primary care physician , orthopedic surgery , cardiology , and pulmonary medicine within the next two weeks. 
His labs are to be drawn for a metabolic panel , magnesium and calcium q.o.d. for as long as the primary care physician feels it is necessary with repletion of his electrolytes as needed. 
He is to have physical therapy performed as needed. 
His weightbearing status is non-weightbearing on the left lower extremity and weightbearing as tolerated on his right lower extremity per orthopedic surgery at the time of discharge. 
DISCHARGE DIET: ADA diet , low fat , low cholesterol , low salt. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , hold for systolic blood pressure less than 100 or heart rate less than 55 , lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d. , hold for systolic blood pressure less than 100 , Lasix 100 mg p.o. q.d. , Lovenox 60 mg subcu. 
b.i.d. x6 months , glipizide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , sliding scale insulin , Nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Silvadene wet-to-dry dressing , please appy dry sterile dressing to right and left foot wound to change q.d. 
Apply DuoDerm to left lower leg wound and change q.3 days , continue pressure care precautions. 
Dictated By: MARIETTE MOLANDS , M.D. GX428 Attending: AVRIL TAPLIN , M.D. FW48 EC172/261077 Batch: 4854 Index No. MTADYD23J8 D: 4/28/02 T: 4/28/02