897713346 | PUO | 28491128 | | 233251 | 3/8/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 1/5/1996 Report Status: Unsigned Discharge Date: 2/3/1996 PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE AND MIXED MITRAL VALVE DISEASE HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Hebdon is an 87 year-old woman with a history of coronary artery disease , mitral regurgitation and multiple sclerosis. 
She has been complaining of chest pain and pressure on exertion as well as dyspnea on exertion associated with limitation of activity and increasing sublingual nitroglycerin use for the six to seven months prior to admission. 
Of note , the patient developed atrial fibrillation , atrial flutter back in October , 1995. 
An echocardiogram at that time demonstrated an ejection fraction of 40% , inferior hypokinesis , moderate mitral regurgitation , and a left atrial size of 6.1 centimeters. 
The patient required hospitalization in October , 1996 , for congestive heart failure. 
She returned to the hospital in February , 1996 , with complaints of chest pain at rest and shortness of breath. 
She was ruled out for myocardial infarction at Put Wathern Hospital and transferred to Pagham University Of , where she refused cardiac catheterization. 
Echocardiogram at that time demonstrated an ejection fraction of 45% , inferior , posterior and anterior septal hypokinesis , mild to moderate mitral stenosis and moderate mitral regurgitation. 
Again , there was left atrial enlargement measured at 6.1 centimeters. 
The patient returned home and was doing well until February , 1996 , when she developed headache , chest pain and shortness of breath. 
She again presented to Put Wathern Hospital where she was found to be in acute pulmonary edema. 
She was stabilized and transferred to Pagham University Of for further management. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for coronary artery disease , status post anterior myocardial infarction. 
Mitral regurgitation. 
Mitral stenosis. 
Atrial fibrillation. 
Hypertension. 
Hypothyroidism. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease. 
Peptic ulcer disease. 
Normocytic anemia. 
Polymyalgia rheumatica. 
History of left humeral fracture. 
She is status post appendectomy , cholecystectomy , and laser therapy for retinal disease of the right eye. 
ALLERGIES: Erythromycin , which causes vomiting and hypertension , as well as to sulfa drugs which cause vomiting. 
She has a possible allergy to penicillin as well. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Synthroid 100 micrograms p.o. q.d.; Lasix 40 milligrams p.o. q.d.; Axid 150 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.; aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d.; prednisone 5 milligrams p.o. q.d.; digoxin 0.125 milligrams p.o. q.d.; Vasotec 5 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.; Zocor 10 milligrams p.o. q.d.; Lopressor 25 milligrams p.o. q.i.d.; Isordil 10 milligrams p.o. t.i.d.; Coumadin alternating 1 and 2 milligrams q.d. 
On transfer , the patient was also on intravenous heparin and Nitropaste. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is widowed and retired. 
She has no smoking or alcohol history. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She is in atrial fibrillation at a rate of 83. 
Her blood pressure is 100/60 and is 95% on room air. 
HEENT: Significant for upper and lower dentures without any oropharyngeal lesions. 
NECK: Supple with 2+ carotid pulses and no bruits. 
LUNGS: Bibasilar crackles. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: Irregularly irregular rate and rhythm. 
Normal S1/S2. 
III/VI holosystolic murmur radiating from the apex to the axilla. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender , obese. 
EXTREMITIES: Without cyanosis , clubbing or edema. 
There are varicosities in bilateral lower extremities with minimal varicosities over the thigh areas. 
There is bilateral knee swelling. 
Pedal pulses are 1+ bilaterally. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Nonfocal. 
LABORATORY DATA: BUN is 35 , creatinine 1.5. 
White blood cell count 8.3. 
Hematocrit 32. PT 11.9 , PTT 28.4. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Pagham University Of Cardiology Service , where she was maximized medically. 
The patient underwent cardiac catheterization on January , 1996 , where she was noted to have right coronary artery stenosis in the mid portion which was 50% and distally had 80%. 
Finally , 90% with subtotal occlusion after the posterior descending artery. 
The left anterior descending artery had 40% stenosis after diagonal 1. Diagonal 1 itself had 90% stenosis in the mid portion. 
The left circumflex had a 70% stenosis at the mid portion and another 70% stenotic area at the distal portion. 
Left ventricular ejection fraction was estimated at 45%. 
Inferior hypokinesis was noted as was 3-4+ mitral regurgitation. 
Right atrial pressures were 6 , right ventricle was 52/10 , pulmonary artery 52/22 , with mean of 33 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was 27 and left ventricle was 160/16. 
The patient was evaluated by the Cardiac Surgical Service for coronary artery bypass grafting and replacement of her mitral valve. 
On March , 1996 , the patient was taken to the Operating Room where she underwent coronary artery bypass grafting times four with saphenous vein graft to posterior descending artery , saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal one , saphenous vein graft to left anterior descending artery , diagonal one and to left anterior descending artery. 
She also had mitral valve replacement with 31 millimeter Hancock. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred postoperatively to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit on nitroglycerin , Dopamine drip. 
She was weaned to extubate without difficulty. 
She was restarted on Captopril and digoxin as well as Coumadin. 
The patient had minimal response to diuretics , associated with a rise in her creatinine to 1.9. 
The Captopril was discontinued and the creatinine returned again to 1.3. 
Although the chest x-ray demonstrated small bilateral pleural effusions , the patient did not require aggressive diuresis initially as she had excellent oxygenation on room air. 
Of note the patient was not restarted on Lopressor as her blood pressures remained in the 90-100 range. 
The patient was , however , started on her prednisone at 5 milligrams p.o. q.d. as well as on her Synthroid. 
Chest tubes and invasive monitoring were discontinued early in the patient's hospital course and she was transferred to the floor on postoperative day number four. 
The patient was followed by physical therapy and occupational therapy for progression of her mobility. 
She was determined to benefit from intensive rehabilitation at a facility. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient was ambulating with assistance. 
She was tolerating a regular diet. 
She was seen to be in atrial fibrillation but ventricular response was well controlled in the 60s to 70s. 
Of note , her electrocardiogram demonstrated persistent right bundle branch block as well as a left anterior fascicular block. 
Although the patient had been receiving more than her normal doses of Coumadin , her INR had not reached the therapeutic range. 
She was , however , therapeutic on heparin. 
DISPOSITION: The patient will be transferred to a facility for intensive conditioning and rehabilitation. 
There she will continue to receive her heparin until she is therapeutic on her Coumadin. 
Coumadin dosing will be handled by primary care doctor , Dr. Gaylene Faniel , or a physician at the rehabilitation center. 
Dr. Swayzer 's number is 326-615-2066. 
The goal INR is 2 to 2.5. 
The patient will also require follow-up chest x-rays as prior to discharge , her chest x-ray demonstrated bilateral pleural effusions which were small and were not compromising her respiration at all. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol #3 one to two tablets p.o. q.3-4h. 
p.r.n. pain; digoxin 0.125 milligrams p.o. q.d.; Colace 100 milligrams p.o. t.i.d. while taking Tylenol #3; Lasix 80 milligrams p.o. q.d. to be continued initially but may be discontinued at the discretion of the primary care or cardiology physicians , pending the resolution of the pleural effusions and her respiratory status; Synthroid 150 micrograms p.o. q.d. 
The patient will require thyroid function tests in four weeks. 
Multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d.; Coumadin , dose to be determined by the patient's INR , again the goal is 2 to 2.5. 
The patient received 4 milligrams on September , and 3 milligrams on September , and her INR on September is 1.3. 
Axid 150 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.; K-Dur 10 mEq p.o. q.d. , potassium will also need to be monitored while she is on the Lasix; intravenous heparin 800 units per hour with a PTT goal of 50-60. 
The patient's PTT today on this dosing is 54. FOLLOW-UP: The patient should follow-up with Dr. Colasamte in four to six weeks , with Dr. Hamblet in two weeks , and with Dr. Swayzer in one to two weeks. 
Dictated By: SHERISE WANKUM , M.D. YC13 Attending: ISABELLE E. COLASAMTE , M.D. CL7 GX992/6464 Batch: 1853 Index No. T6LRIZ5WJ5 D: 6/13/96 T: 6/13/96