275489010 | PUO | 14088690 | | 9660833 | 2/9/2004 12:00:00 AM | CHEST PAIN | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/4/2004 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 3/14/2004 ATTENDING: QUINN JAKE KUSH MD HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Briefly , the patient is a 76-year-old woman with coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass graft in 1992 who was recently admitted with non ST elevation MI/congestive heart failure at which time catheterization revealed an increased wedge with decreased patency in both venous grafts and a patent LIMA graft with collaterals. 
The patient has an extensive past medical history of hypercholesterolemia , chronic renal insufficiency , insulin dependent diabetes , coronary artery disease status post multiple MI , CABG , hypertension , degenerative joint disease , CVA , gout , schizoaffective disorder , tardive dyskinesia and hypothyroidism. 
At her baseline she has been staying at the Sa Pehall and on admission was complaining of chest pressure since waking , similar to the pressure she felt during a prior admission. 
She had a certain amount of shortness of breath , some nausea , two episodes of vomiting and her symptoms were not responsive to nitroglycerin tablets at the Sa Pehall The patient came to the I Warho Hospital Emergency Department where she reported that her chest pressure had resolved. 
She was treated with IV TNG. 
In the Emergency Department she was also treated with Lopressor , aspirin , IV trinitroglycerin and was heparinized. 
The patient then pulled out the lines. 
Her admission vitals were significant for a blood pressure of 180/90. 
The patient had a heart rate of 86 , was afebrile and was breathing at 100% at 2 liters. 
She had an elevated JVP , had clear sounding lungs , trace edema and at the left upper sternal border and left lower sternal border a systolic ejection murmur II-III/VI was heard with S1 and S2. Admission labs were significant for an elevated creatinine of 2.0. 
Cardiac enzymes were negative. 
The patient had elevated platelets from a baseline of 30 to 80 to 673 on admission , a white count of 9.3 , hematocrit of 35. 
EKG was notable for a Q3 which had been seen on a prior EKG. 
T-wave inversions also seen on a prior EKG. 
The patient had an echo on 7/4 which showed concentric LVH with an EF of 30-35% , posterolateral and inferior akinesis was also seen. 
A calcified aortic valve with trace AI and mild MR was seen. 
On 10/19 , the patient had catheterization which showed that her circulation was right dominant with an LAD 90% and 100% lesions , left circumflex with 100% lesion , RCA with 100% lesions. 
She had an SVG to PDA graft with 100% lesion , SVG to circumflex graft with 85% lesion stented to 10% at that time. 
She had a LIMA to LAD graft which was patent , and she had lots of collaterals. 
The right heart cath was significant for a wedge of 39 and a PA of 75/34 and right atrial pressure of 14 and a cardiac index of 1.7. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: By system , 1. Ischemia: The patient was initially treated with aspirin , beta blockers , statin , Plavix , Heparinized and was ruled out with enzymes. 
On the first day of hospitalizations , the patient's heparin was stopped , the patient's IV trinitroglycerin was stopped as well. 
The patient was started on nadolol and that dose was increased to 80 q.day which the patient tolerated well and seemed to control the patient's blood pressure and heart rate reasonably well. 
The patient's attending felt that the patient was a poor candidate for catheterization and other interventions and would not benefit significantly from it. 
The symptoms the patient was having was similar she was having during a prior hospitalization which had ended just two days before this admission. 
It was felt that her nausea , vomiting and chest pressure were probably noncardiac in nature. 
The only change in the patient's cardiac medications at the time of discharge is an increase in nadolol to 80 mg q.day. 
Rhythm: The patient's rhythm was monitored on telemetry for most of her stay during this hospitalization. 
Significant events were not observed. 
Pump: The patient was continued at her regular dose of outpatient medications which seemed to be effective. 
The patient had multiple complaints of chest pain/pressure during her hospitalization which resulted in periodic examinations and EKGs. 
All of these workups were negative. 
2. GI: On 10/26 it was noted that the patient had an increased white count of 16 , 000. 
Also on exam on that day it was noted that the patient had marked right upper quadrant abdominal tenderness and fullness. 
She was not tender anywhere else in her abdomen. 
Abdominal exam was also significant for a central mass representing an umbilical hernia. 
At that time , General Surgery consult was called. 
Lipase and amylase were sent off. 
They were negative. 
Liver function tests were also in the normal range at that time. 
Surgery felt that the patient was a poor surgical candidate given her comorbidities at that time but did recommend a cholecystectomy in the future. 
They recommended initial antibiotic course of amp , Levo and Flagyl which she was started on. 
They also recommended making the patient NPO treated her with Pepcid and giving her adequate IV hydration. 
The major intervention they suggested was a cholecystectomy tube by Interventional Radiology which was placed on the night of 3/16/04. 
On 9/24 , the patient's white count was down to 10 with a Tmax of 100 , and at the time of discharge the patient had a white count in the normal range around 7 and was also afebrile. 
Surgery followed the patient during her stay in the hospital as did Interventional Radiology. 
Bile was sent out for culture which showed yeast as well as a gram stain which showed gram positive cocci. 
The patient's antibiotics were switched to Vancomycin , Levo and Flagyl. 
Initially the Vancomycin and Flagyl were given IV and the Levo was given p.o. One day prior to discharge , the patient's Flagyl was switched to p.o. and on the day of discharge the Vancomycin was stopped after the patient had received seven days of Vancomycin. 
The patient will be discharged on Flagyl p.o. and Levo p.o. The patient was also started no Fluconazole 100 to treat the yeast that was noted in her bile cultures. 
The IR drain will need to be in the patient's gallbladder for a minimum of six weeks or until the patient has her elective cholecystectomy which will be scheduled at a later date. 
3. ID: The patient is colonized with MRSA and appropriate precautions were taken and the patient was also noted to have an infection in her gallbladder and was treated for it as such. 
4. Pain: The patient was treated for abdominal pain during her stay in the hospital with Demerol and also with Morphine. 5. Psychiatry: The patient was seen by Psychiatry on admission to help manage her agitation and delirium. 
They did a preliminary assessment of the patient. 
The patient did show certain signs of agitation and multiple code grays had to be called on the patient for difficult behavior , though the patient was never in danger of truly hurting herself or others. 
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Cardiac chest pain. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Cholecystitis now resolved. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: ASA 325 , Colace 100 b.i.d. , Lasix 80 b.i.d. , insulin sliding scale , Levoxyl 175 , nadolol 80 , Lipitor 80 q.h.s. , Lantis 18 units , Diovan 80 , levofloxacin 500 every 24 hours to complete a 14 day course , Fluconazole 100 to complete a 14 day course , Flagyl 500 t.i.d. to complete a 14 day course , Plavix 75 , famotidine 20 b.i.d. , iron 325 q.day. 
eScription document: 2-8292194 DBSSten Tel CC: Belinda Esannason M.D. Sno Mont , Michigan Dictated By: ESANNASON , BELINDA Attending: KUSH , QUINN JAKE Dictation ID 2479778 D: 10/18/04 T: 10/18/04