567692877 | PUO | 54622825 | | 730625 | 10/19/1998 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/13/1998 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/7/1998 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Sare is a 70 year old man who recently had been experiencing an increase in frequency of chest pain with exertion. 
As a result of his recent increase in symptoms , he was administered an exercise tolerance test which was predictive of ischemia and revealed an ejection fraction of approximately 50%. 
As a result of his positive exercise tolerance test , he was referred for cardiac catheterization on May , 1998 which revealed three vessel coronary artery disease. 
At this time , he was referred to the cardiac surgery service for revascularization. 
PAST MEDICAL/SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder , the patient was status post radical cystectomy in 1992 with an ileal loop bypass , no chemotherapy or radiation therapy was used in the treatment of this cancer , also significant history of asthma treated at home with the use of inhalers , and patient also reported a history of gallstones which were asymptomatic. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Cardizem 180 mg once a day , 81 mg of aspirin a day , and Lipitor 10 mg p.o. once a day. 
The patient used Beclovent metered dose inhaler at three puffs once a day at home to control his asthma symptoms. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Patient reported a remote history of tobacco use with no tobacco use for the last thirty years. 
Likewise , he reported no current use of alcohol. 
ALLERGIES: Patient reported no known drug allergies. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: At the time of admission , temperature was 98.4 degrees Fahrenheit , heart rate of 80 beats per minute and regular , blood pressure of 120/80 , and an oxygen saturation of 94% on room air. 
HEENT: Essentially within normal limits revealing no audible bruits over his carotid arteries , no jugular venous distention , no lymphadenopathy , and his oropharynx was benign with reasonably good dentition. 
CARDIAC: Examination revealed the heart to be in a regular rate and rhythm at 80 beats per minute with no audible murmur , gallop , or rub. 
CHEST: Examination revealed the lungs to be clear to auscultation in bilateral lung fields. 
ABDOMEN: Examination was benign with the exception of the ileal loop mentioned above. 
The abdomen was otherwise nontender and nondistended without any focal findings. 
EXTREMITIES: Examination revealed no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema , 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally , and no evidence of varicose veins. 
RECTAL: Examination revealed normal tone and guaiac negative stool. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Values at the time of admission included a BUN of 17 , a creatinine of 1.1 , sodium of 140 , potassium of 4.3 , white blood cell count of 9 , platelet count of 245 , 000 , and a hematocrit of 49.1. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was taken to the Operating Room on January , 1998 where he underwent coronary artery bypass grafting times four including left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending coronary artery and saphenous vein grafts to the posterior descending coronary artery , the obtuse marginal , and the PLV. 
For further details of this operation , please refer to the dictated Operative Note. 
Patient progressed well in his postoperative course. 
He was extubated on postoperative day number one and transferred from the Intensive Care Unit to the Stepdown Unit on postoperative day number two. 
On postoperative day number three , the patient had a his chest tubes and temporary cardiac pacing wires discontinued and began working on increasing his ambulation and mobility. 
Patient continued to progress well on the Stepdown Unit and was now in good condition for discharge to home with visiting nurse services on postoperative day number six. 
The only complication of note during his postoperative course was positive urine culture for which the patient was started on levofloxacin to be continued for a total course of seven days. 
DISPOSITION: The patient is in good condition for discharge to home on postoperative day number six. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Beclovent three puffs inhaled once a day , aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , diltiazem 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. times four days. 
FOLLOW-UP: He has been instructed to make follow-up appointments with his cardiologist for one week following discharge and to return to see his cardiac surgeon , Dr. Genny Barrette , six weeks following discharge from the hospital. 
Dictated By: SVETLANA SALLINGS , P.A. Attending: GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D. ZD6 OK339/6140 Batch: 83626 Index No. KUNCBB4H6A D: 10/23/98 T: 5/15/98