348919353 | PUO | 94918484 | | 827714 | 11/16/1997 12:00:00 AM | NEW ATRIAL FIBRILLATION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/23/1997 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 8/21/1997 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 76 year old woman who had a two vessel coronary artery bypass graft on 3/10/97. 
She was discharged to home on 5/4/97 to F. Memorial Hospital where she developed epigastric discomfort and recurrent atrial fibrillation and was transferred back to I Warho Hospital . 
Her cardiac history dates back to October of 1995 when she was admitted to I Warho Hospital for an asthma flare. 
At that time she ruled out for a myocardial infarction. 
Her CKs were negative. 
An exercise test at that time showed she was able to go eight minutes on a Bruce protocol with 2 mm ST depressions in leads 2 , 3 , and F. A MIBI showed a small reversible defect inferiorly and she was managed medically at that time. 
In February of 1996 she was again admitted to I Warho Hospital with chest pain. 
She ruled out for a myocardial infarction. 
She was started on Prilosec for presumed gastroesophageal reflux disease. 
In September of 1996 an exercise Thallium test showed she went eight minutes on a Bruce protocol with a heart rate of 125 , blood pressure 170/80 , and no ECG changes. 
She stopped secondary to chest pain. 
From 3/30/97 through 3/5/97 she presented with chest pressure at rest which radiated to her shoulders and jaw. 
On presentation she was noted to be in rapid atrial fibrillation. 
An ECG at that time showed elevated T-waves in V1 and V2. 
She was treated with Lopressor with slowing of the rate and relief of her chest pain. 
She ruled in for a myocardial infarction with a peak CK of 473 with an MB fraction of 32. 
Her Lopressor was changed to Verapamil secondary to increased wheezing requiring nebulizers. 
The patient underwent a cardiac catheterization. 
The catheterization revealed an left anterior descending artery that had 70% proximal lesion with collaterals , left circumflex artery with long 80 to 90% stenosis , right coronary artery 30 to 40% stenosis , left ventricle with ejection fraction of 58% , and apical akinesis. 
She spontaneously converted to normal sinus rhythm. 
Following catheterization the patient agreed to a coronary artery bypass graft but the procedure was postponed until she received Epogen therapy since she is a Jehovah's Witness. 
She was discharged in sinus rhythm. 
She returned on 10/17/97 and underwent a coronary artery bypass graft times two which was complicated by a perioperative myocardial infarction with inferior ST elevations and peak CK of 386 and MB fraction of 8.1. 
Atrial fibrillation was not controlled with Verapamil. 
The patient was loaded on Digoxin and had multiple episodes of atrial fibrillation. 
She converted to normal sinus rhythm and was discharged to rehabilitation on 5/4/97 in normal sinus rhythm. 
Her postoperative course was notable for gastrointestinal distress with epigastric burning , reflux , nausea , vomiting , and constipation. 
On 5/4/97 at rehabilitation the patient noted worsening epigastric burning with a sour taste in her mouth. 
This was relieved with Maalox. 
She was awakened from sleep with epigastric burning radiating to the right back and palpitations. 
ECG showed rapid atrial fibrillation at a rate of 125 to 150 and she was treated with Verapamil 2.5 mg IV times two and converted to normal sinus rhythm. 
The patient was noted to have ST elevations of 1 mm in 1 , 3 , and F and she was transferred to I Warho Hospital for further evaluation. 
She had no complaint of shortness of breath , orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , syncope , or presyncope. 
At I Warho Hospital she was noted to have epigastric burning similar to a prior episode and was treated with Maalox with relief. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was lying in bed in no apparent distress. 
HEENT: Normocephalic , atraumatic. 
Pupils equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation. 
Extraocular movements intact. 
Oropharynx benign. 
Neck: Supple. 
Full range of motion. 
No lymphadenopathy. 
Carotids 2+ without bruits. 
JVP 8 cm. 
Heart: No heave and no thrill. 
Regular rate. 
S1 , split S2. 2/6 systolic murmur at apex. 
Positive for frictional rub. 
Lungs clear to auscultation. 
No wheeze or rhonchi. 
Chest had midline sternotomy without any exudate or erythema. 
Sternum was stable. 
Back: No costovertebral angle tenderness. 
Abdomen: Keloid in right upper quadrant. 
Soft , nontender , nondistended. 
No hepatosplenomegaly. 
Extremities: No clubbing , cyanosis , or edema. 
Neurologic: Alert and oriented times three. 
Cranial nerves II - XII intact. 
Intact sensation and strength throughout. 
Reflexes symmetric and toes downgoing. 
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 129 , potassium 5.4 , creatinine 1.0 , BUN 20 , glucose 227. 
Digoxin level 2.6. 
Hematocrit 45.1 , WBC 9.2. 
Her triponin-1 level was 0.7. 
ECG at I Warho Hospital was in normal sinus rhythm. 
Normal left axis , normal intervals. 
0.16 , 0.88 , 0.36. 
Rate of 85. 
Left atrial enlargement. 1 mm ST depressions in 1 and 2 which is consistent with Digoxin effect. 
1 mm upsloping ST elevations in 2 , 3 , and F unchanged from prior ECG on 8/28/97. 
Chest x-ray showed mediastinal shadow. 
Stable with question of atelectasis at left base. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient ruled out for a myocardial infarction and her chest burning was primarily due to gastrointestinal reflux which was relieved with Maalox , as well as chest discomfort in her left shoulder which was due to musculoskeletal pain and was relieved with Tylenol and Percocet or Darvocet. 
On monitor she showed no evidence of atrial fibrillation although she did have supraventricular tachycardia and one incident of a ten-beat run. 
In light of the fact that the patient is a Jehovah's Witness and is not a candidate for being Coumadinized for episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation , it was felt that we would use the anti-arrhythmic agent , Propafenone , to prevent episodes in the perioperative period of atrial fibrillation. 
Her Digoxin was discontinued and she tolerated Propafenone load of 150 mg t.i.d. well along with her Verapamil dose. 
Other issues during this admission were that her blood sugar was high requiring sliding scale of insulin. 
Also the patient had hyponatremia with sodium in the high 120s and low 130s throughout her stay , as well as a potassium which was mildly elevated , ranging from 5.0 to 5.8. 
Cortisol levels were drawn and results are pending for possibility of adrenal insufficiency. 
The question of a renal tubular acidosis type IV was raised. 
Throughout the admission her chest burning was well controlled with Maalox. 
Her Pepcid dose was increased to 20 mg b.i.d. 
Helicobacter pylori and IgG antibodies were sent and results are pending. 
Her musculoskeletal pain which is primarily in her left shoulder radiating to her arm has been well controlled with Tylenol. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for coronary history as above , asthma which has required hospitalization in the past but no intubations , adult-onset diabetes mellitus for which she takes Micronase , hypertension , gastroesophageal reflux disease , hypercholesterolemia , status post cholecystectomy , left lower lobe granuloma followed by chest CT scan , and cataracts. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q4h , Albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. , Ecasa 81 mg p.o. q.d. , Beclovent 2 sprays t.i.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Epogen 10 , 000 units subcu three times a week , Gliburide 5 mg p.o. q.d. , Mevacor 20 mg p.o. q.p.m. , Prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Propafenone 150 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Verapamil SR 120 mg p.o. q.d. 
ALLERGIES: Beta blockers and Lisinopril. 
It is questionable whether she has allergy to Naprosyn as well. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives at home with her daughter. 
No alcohol. 
No tobacco. 
DISPOSITION: The patient is being discharged to F. Memorial Hospital She will likely require a short course of physical therapy and rehabilitation and will be returning to home following her course of rehabilitation. 
FOLLOWUP: She will follow-up in the future with her primary care physician , Dr. Crooked , as well as with her cardiologist , Dr. Paetzold CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient is stable on the day of discharge. 
Dictated By: KAYLEEN ROAOO , M.D. Attending: FLOYD T. LYN , M.D. OX2 CM201/2689 Batch: 5910 Index No. MZBX5H793U D: 4/21/97 T: 4/21/97 CC: 1. CORRINA CROOKED , M.D. SJ80