186460411 | PUO | 64944861 | | 0756627 | 7/2/2004 12:00:00 AM | ACUTE MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/28/2004 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 8/4/2004 ATTENDING: ALEXANDRA POPOVIC MD , PHD ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Coronary artery disease status post inferior myocardial infarction. 
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Inferior myocardial infarction. 
OTHER DIAGNOSES: Rheumatoid arthritis , myocardial infarction , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , coronary artery disease status post carotid endarterectomy , status post cerebrovascular accident , gastroesophageal reflux disease , diabetes mellitus , cerebral artery aneurysm , and depression. 
The patient is a 77-year-old female with coronary artery disease who presented to an outside hospital with chest pain that she thought was GERD but became concerned when it started radiating down her left arm. 
At the outside hospital , she was noted to be febrile with temperature 39.8 and noted on EKG to have ST elevations in the inferior leads. 
The patient was med-flighted to Totin Hospital And Clinic for an emergent cath. 
The patient had 70% LAD lesion , 50% proximal RCA , and 90% mid RCA lesion that was stented to 0% , and a 60% PDA lesion , and LVEDP of 33 on initial cath. 
Started on Integrilin post cath and transferred to CCU. 
The patient did well in the CCU and was transferred out on the next day. 
Previous to admission , the patient resided in a assisted living facility and was fairly active but has had increasing dyspnea on exertion , decreasing exercise tolerance over the past six months. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Temperature was 98.8 , heart rate was in the 70s , BP was 120s/60s , respirations was 22 , saturation was 90% on 2 liters nasal cannula. 
Generally , she is an obese female in mild distress. 
Some cough. 
Her HEENT exam showed a clear oropharynx. 
No erythema or injection. 
Skin had no rashes or other lesions. 
Neck was supple with full range of motion. 
JVP was approximately 2 with 2+ carotid pulses without bruits. 
No thyromegaly or nodules. 
Chest was noted to have diffuse wheezing with bilateral bibasilar crackles. 
Questionable right-sided consolidation , PMI nondisplaced with a regular rate and rhythm with S4 , S1 with physiologically split S2. No significant murmurs or rubs. 
Abdomen was nondistended and nontender. 
Positive bowel sounds. 
No hepatosplenomegaly. 
Her extremities showed no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. 
2+ femoral , DP , and PT pulses. 
Neurologically , she was alert and oriented with normal mental status and nonfocal exam. 
Her chest x-ray showed evidence of pulmonary edema with focal consolidation of right upper lobe with chest consistent with pneumonia. 
Her EKG on admission , was normal sinus rhythm in the 60s with normal axis and inferior Q waves with T-wave inversions inferiorly and laterally. 
IMPRESSION: This is a 77-year-old female status post IMI with concurrent COPD exacerbation secondary to probable right upper lobe pneumonia. 
HOSPIATL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: 1. Cardiovascular: The patient did very well status post revascularization. 
She did have some persistent pain while in the intensive care unit and this went away on transfer to the floor. 
She was medically optimized and continued on aspirin and Plavix , added a beta blocker and ACE inhibitor to the patient's 1B pump. 
The patient had compensated heart function on discharge , euvolemic , but she did require intermittent Lasix. 
She was discharged on Lasix to treat heart failure. 
Rhythm-wise , the patient remained in normal sinus rhythm throughout the course of hospitalization. 
2. Pulmonary: The patient was treated for COPD exacerbation with a rapid prednisone taper , and her home nebulizers , and a 10-day course of levofloxacin. 
Incidentally , the patient also admitted to having a TB exposure. 
We placed a TB and that was nonreactive and had induced sputums that were negative x 3. 3. Renal: The patient had well preserved renal function normalized at discharge. 
4. FEN: The patient was tolerating oral diet well and was indicated on her instructions that she should have low-calorie , low-fat , low-cholesterol diet particularly given her diabetes and she should watch her sugar and was maintained on her own. 5. Psychiatry: The patient has a history of depression and noted to be depressed throughout the course of hospitalization with some suicidal ideations toward the end of her hospitalization. 
For that reason , we requested that psychiatry come and evaluate her. 
They did so deeming her safe to return to her facility and adjusting her antidepressants. 
The patient was discharged in stable condition. 
Procedures included percutaneous coronary intervention with stenting to her right coronary artery x 2. Please see full report for details. 
Her discharge medications include aspirin 325 mg , atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. , Prozac 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Atrovent inhaler two to four puffs q.i.d. p.r.n. , lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , Ativan 0.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. insomnia or anxiety , prednisone she was completing a taper with 40 mg x 2 days , 20 mg x 2 days , 10 mg x 2 days , and then off , trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. sleep , Zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Flovent 110 mcg b.i.d. , Plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d. , Serevent one puff inhaled b.i.d. , Nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , and Elmiron 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
The patient had followup set up with her primary care doctor , cardiology as well as her psychiatrist. 
eScription document: 9-4353857 ISSten Tel Dictated By: FLEISHER , LUETTA Attending: POPOVIC , ALEXANDRA Dictation ID 2762045 D: 10/23/04 T: 5/28/04