453802027 | PUO | 16219070 | | 9974311 | 10/16/2003 12:00:00 AM | RENAL FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/16/2003 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 8/17/2003 ATTENDING: GWYNETH ALMEDA DEPSKY MD ATTENDING PHYSICIAN ON ADMISSION: Gwyneth Almeda Depsky , M.D. ATTENDING PHYSICIAN ON DISCHARGE: Colin Naji , M.D. CHIEF COMPLAINT: Mr. Vonsoosten is a 43-year-old man with morbid obesity , type II diabetes , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , chronic renal insufficiency , and severe peripheral arterial disease status post femoral popliteal bypass in September which was complicated by repeated return of cellulitis x 2 who was admitted with cellulitis and volume overload. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient has had two wound complications after his femoral popliteal bypass requiring two separate incisions and drainages including courses of intravenous nafcillin x 4 weeks and with vancomycin x 4 weeks. 
He had been seen by Vascular Surgery five days prior to admission and had been started on dicloxacillin for a third episode of cellulitis. 
He had also presented with fluid overload and spironolactone was added to his diuretic regimen. 
His primary care provider saw him the day prior to admission , and the patient reported a recent fall and the primary care physician recommended admission to the hospital. 
The patient does report some fever and shaking chills and decreased appetite. 
Also , reported weakness in bilateral lower extremities and right foot pain. 
He has chronic loss of sensation in both feet. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Morbid obesity , type II diabetes , chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 2-2.5 , dyslipidemia , hypertension , coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , anemia , history of deep vein thrombosis , obstructive sleep apnea , anger disorder , peptic ulcer disease , and tinea pedis. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Atenolol 100 mg q.d. , spironolactone , torsemide 160 mg b.i.d. , Hyzaar 50/12.5 q. day , lisinopril 60 mg q. day , Neurontin 1200 mg t.i.d. , Norvasc 10 mg q.a.m. and 5 mg q.p.m. , Coumadin 8 mg , aspirin , Humalog sliding scale , Percocet , Pletal 100 mg b.i.d. , Procrit , Zantac , nitroglycerin p.r.n. , and NPH 80 q.a.m. and q.p.m. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical exam , the patient was afebrile and had a temperature of 99 , a heart rate of 70 , blood pressure 200/79 possibly taken with an undersized cuff , 18 and 99% on room air. 
He is obese and comfortable man in bed and in no acute distress. 
His JVP could not be assessed from the size of his neck. 
Heart sounds were distant. 
Chest was clear. 
His abdomen is obese with bowel sounds , nontender , and nondistended. 
Extremities: Notable for 3+ edema , and including 1+ extending to the groin. 
His pulses were Dopplerable bilaterally with a triphasic wave on the right and biphasic on the left. 
The medial aspect of his right leg had a surgical scar. 
A healed annular burn wound in the medial knee and an area of erythema along the scar with warmth , moderate tenderness , no fluctuance and minimal induration , no discharge. 
The diameter of his right leg was greater than his left. 
His right heel had an intact ??blough?? and his left heel had a dry pressure sore. 
His right big toe was tender to palpation. 
LABORATORY STUDIES: Labs were notable for a creatinine of 3.4 and an INR of 7.1. 
His EKG showed normal sinus rhythm at 75. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEMS: Problem #1. Infectious Disease: The patient was started on vancomycin IV on admission for his right medial thigh cellulitis at the site of the femoropopliteal bypass with rapid defervescence and improvement. 
No drainage , no fluctuance. 
Additional antibiotic coverage was added specifically of fluoroquinolone for anti-psuedomonal coverage for his diabetic foot ulcers. 
The right heel also looked increasingly purulent during his hospitalization and bilateral foot plain films were done. 
These were negative for osteomyelitis but showed a metal sliver in the right foot and an acute fracture of the first metatarsal. 
Surgical debridement was done in the operating room with drainage of pus , but the metal showed could not be located even with fluoroscopy. 
The patient will complete a 14-day course of levofloxacin and clindamycin for these foot ulcers , and will be discharged home with visiting nursing care for b.i.d. wet-to-dry dressing changes. 
He will follow up with Jerica Tanya Youngberg , M.D. in one to two weeks. 
Problem #2. Renal: The patient was volume overloaded on admission. 
His torsemide was changed to IV and metolazone was added and was given 30 minutes prior to his first torsemide dose of the day. 
A diuresis of 1.5-2 liters a day was achieved with this regimen with the exception of a 4 liter diuresis overnight on the first day of admission. 
His electrolytes were replaced as needed. 
I have expected his creatinine increase to 4.5 by discharge. 
He will need close renal follow ups as he may be approaching need for dialysis. 
The Renal Service followed him during this hospitalization and at their recommendation , spironolactone will be discontinued upon discharge since his diuresis will be slowed. 
Problem #3. Vascular: Diuresis was essential for resolution of his cellulitis. 
Pletal was continued and because of his severe peripheral arterial disease , he will require excellent wound care to optimize healing. 
Problem #4. Heme: Initially , his Coumadin was held for a supratherapeutic INR. 
This was restarted when his INR was 2.2 and he his now in the therapeutic range and will need to be followed. 
Problem #5. Cardiovascular: He was hypertensive on arrival which was treated with Hydralazine initially and transitioned to his p.o. home medicines. 
Even with a large cuff , his blood pressure continued to run high in the 150s-180s. 
On hospital day #9 , Hydralazine p.o. was added with good effect which lowered his systolic blood pressure to the range of the 120s-130s. 
Goal is below 130/80. 
Problem #6. Endocrine: The patient was admitted with NPH and Humalog. 
The Diabetes Service saw the patient and at their recommendation NPH doses were increased , and he is now on 90 units in the morning and 85 units at night. 
The goal for this patient is below 150 particularly given the need for wound healing. 
Problem #7: GI: The patient was seen by Nutrition and will be evaluated as an outpatient by Bariatric Surgery pending next week. 
This is of utmost importance for this patient with life-threatening morbid obesity who already has severe complications of obesity-related conditions. 
The patient has obesity , hyperventilation syndrome. 
Problem #8. Pulmonary: The patient has obstructive sleep apnea. 
A CPAP machine was brought to the patient bedside , but the patient was unable to tolerate the nose mask. 
He will use his own device when he returns home. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: He will go home with visiting nurse care and will need to see his nephrologist , vascular surgeons , primary care provider , and Bariatric Surgery following discharge. 
eScription document: 1-9575418 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: BUCCHERI , FELICE Attending: DEPSKY , GWYNETH ALMEDA Dictation ID 7864433 D: 8/7/03 T: 8/7/03