624487742 | PUO | 42100083 | | 543269 | 3/10/2000 12:00:00 AM | UNSTABLE ANGINA , R/O MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/9/2000 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 4/26/2000 ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: CHEST PAIN OF UNCLEAR ETIOLOGY. 
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Baffa is a 72 year old woman with a past medical history significant for coronary artery disease , diabetes , and hypertension who presented with worsening chest pain and shortness of breath. 
She had a long history of coronary artery disease with an exercise stress test in 1997 that was positive for ischemic ST-T wave changes. 
She had a catheterization at that time which revealed diffuse three vessel disease , none of which was significant. 
In 1998 , she developed a left bundle branch on her EKG but it was not clear when exactly this happened. 
She stated that for the past year , she got these stabbing pains in the center of her chest that then progressed to a squeezing pain with palpitations. 
Sometimes , there was relation to exertion but no relation to meals or position and this chest pain had been increasing in frequency over the past two to three weeks so now it occurred approximately two to three times a week and was associated with shortness of breath. 
Two days prior to admission , she developed constant chest pain that went to her left arm and made four of her left fingers numb. 
She was quite short of breath though she denied paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , orthopnea , lower extremity edema , increased nocturia , and diet or medication noncompliance. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant also for diabetes for which she took insulin and checked her sugars at home which ran 170 range to 200 range , hypertension , and she had idiopathic drop attacks. 
She got these episodes where her legs fell out from under her without warning but she did not lose consciousness. 
She had had an MRI/MRA that showed some diffuse small vessel disease but the MRA was normal. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 50 b.i.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 25 q.d. , Lisinopril 40 q.d. , simvastatin 10 q.d. , metformin 500 q.d. , and NPH 43 q.a.m. and 24 q.p.m. 
ALLERGIES: Penicillin caused a rash and intravenous contrast dye caused hives. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She was a retired nurses' aide who retired in 1992 , she was a widow , and she had two living children who were grown. 
She lived alone and took care of her eight year old great-grandson but had a daughter and son-in-law who lived next door. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , significant for an elderly obese African-American woman lying in bed in some mild respiratory distress. 
Her oropharynx was moist , her jugular venous pressure was 12 cm , her lungs had scattered crackles at the bases , her heart was regular with an S4 , her belly was soft and nontender , her extremities had trace edema , and her rectal examination showed guaiac negative brown stool. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Her EKG showed a left bundle branch block and chest x-ray showed mild pulmonary edema and Kerley B lines. 
Her laboratories on admission were all within normal limits. 
Her initial CK was 97 with troponin of 0.01. 
ASSESSMENT: In summary , this is a 72 year old woman with multiple cardiac risk factors who presented with chest pain of unclear etiology. 
She was admitted for evaluation. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Cardiovascular - She was admitted for catheterization which showed three vessel disease , again nonsignificant and not changed from the catheterization in 1997. 
She ruled out for a myocardial infarction. 
She had an echo which showed some element of diastolic dysfunction and pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 36 plus RA but no wall motion abnormalities. 
It was felt that she had some element of diastolic dysfunction that caused her to go into a bit of pulmonary edema , maybe subendocardial ischemia. 
Therefore , while she was maintained on her aspirin and simvastatin , her blood pressure regimen was advanced. 
Her heart rate was in the fifties to sixties and Atenolol 50 b.i.d. was added. 
She was on a maximum of Lisinopril at 40 milligrams so nifedipine extended release was added and titrated up to 120 milligrams q.d. where she maintained systolic blood pressures in the 160 range nevertheless. 
This could be further titrated as an outpatient. 
2. For her congestive heart failure , she diuresed approximately four liters through admission with Lasix at 40 intravenously and would be discharged on a seven day course of Lasix at 20 p.o. q.d. for further diuresis. 
3. Pulmonary - She did have hypoxia on admission to 85% on room air while lying in bed. 
This was felt to be out of proportion to her mild congestive heart failure and further causes were sought. 
Her D-dymer was greater than 1000 and she then went for a V/Q scan which was low probability. 
Her lower extremity noninvasives were negative. 
She also had a chest CT which showed no interstitial lung disease. 
She had pulmonary function tests which were consistent with restrictive picture and were not much changed from her pulmonary function tests in 1998. 
A pulmonary consultation was obtained who believed that the congestive heart failure along with obesity underlying restrictive lung disease could be the cause of her hypoxia and , in fact , after further diuresis , her shortness of breath much improved and she had O2 saturations that were 93% on room air. 
4. Endocrine - She was maintained on metformin during admission and also on half of her dose of her normal dose of NPH given her decreased p.o. intake , however , given the fact that she stated that her sugars at home on her regimen of 43 q.a.m. and 24 q.p.m. were 170 to 200 , she was discharged on this regimen with instructions to check her sugar and call her doctor if they were low. 
DISPOSITION: She is discharged in stable condition on January , 2000. 
She will follow up with Dr. Nhek , her primary care doctor , and in addition , with Dr. Tyacke , her cardiologist. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 50 b.i.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 25 q.d. , Lisinopril 40 q.d. , nifedipine extended release 120 q.d. , metformin 500 q.d. , NPH 43 q.a.m. and 24 q.p.m. , simvastatin 10 q.d. , aspirin 325 q.d. , and Lasix 20 milligrams p.o. q.d. times seven days. 
Dictated By: COLETTA VERRY , M.D. JA00 Attending: RUFUS C. BERNAS , M.D. XS9 QI263/8113 Batch: 43184 Index No. GKWO9Q3388 D: 7/19 T: 7/19