262260684 | PUO | 44536773 | | 0687806 | 3/10/2005 12:00:00 AM | R/O HEART BLOCK | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 8/29/2005 Report Status: Unsigned Discharge Date: 5/29/2005 ATTENDING: KATHERYN GRUNTZ MD PROCEDURES DURING ADMISSION: 1. Insertion of a pacemaker , 8/16/05. 
2. Electrophysiology study , 8/16/05. 
3. Cardiac catheterization , 2/5/05. 
ADMITTING DIAGNOSES: 1. Third-degree heart block. 
2. Syncope. 
3. Status post motor vehicle collision. 
4. Rule out stroke. 
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. Third-degree heart block; resolved. 
2. Status post motor vehicle collision. 
3. Lateral and medial menisci tears , left knee. 4. Old CVA. 
SECONDARY DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. Coronary artery disease. 
2. Diabetes. 
3. Hypertension. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Vlasak is a 73-year-old gentleman who is a restrained driver in a single car motor vehicle collision , in which the car went off the road at a moderate rate of speed ( approximately 45 miles an hour ) , and struck a telephone pole. 
There are no skin marks noted at the scene. 
There was airbag deployment , and the patient was wearing a seatbelt. 
The patient reports feeling "fine" prior to the motor vehicle collision. 
However , he has no recollection of the motor vehicle collision itself , and the next thing he remembers is waking up and finding the airbag is deployed , and being in severe pain. 
He does remember EMS arriving. 
Upon arrival of the EMS , he was found to have a heart rate of 30 in a third-degree AV block. 
The patient denies any chest pain , shortness of breath , nausea or vomiting before the motor vehicle collision. 
He also denies any fevers , chills , night sweats , shortness of breath , headaches or visual changes either before or after. 
He had no recent changes in any doses of his medications. 
He was also complaining of knee pain. 
ED COURSE: In the Emergency Department , he was seen by the Trauma Team. 
A full dictation of the Emergency Department courses has been completed. 
Please see the computer for further details of this dictation. 
However , in brief , he had numerous CAT scans performed while in the Emergency Department. 
These included a CAT scan of the abdomen and pelvis , head , and chest. 
There was also a CT of the cervicothoracic and lumbar spine , with reconstructions performed. 
As well as plain x-rays films of the lower extremity as well a pelvis , C-spine , and chest. 
Of significance , the plain films of the knee were negative. 
The CAT scan of the chest demonstrated a right frontal periventricular hypodensity , which was thought to represent a subacute infarct. 
He was subsequently admitted to the Cardiac Step-Down Floor. 
He was seen by the Neurology Service ( Dr. Richmann , who is the Neurology resident ) , who initially saw him. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Significant for myocardial infarction , eight years ago. 
He received cardiac stents at that time. 
2. Hypertension. 
3. Hypercholesterolemia. 4. Diabetes. 
5. Renal cyst. 
6. Cataract. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: 1. Significant for coronary stenting; two were placed eight years ago during his MI , and he had an additional two stents placed in September of 2004. 
2. Cataract removal. 
MEDICATIONS AT HOME: 1. Glyburide 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2. Metformin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. 3. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day. 
4. Zocor 80 mg p.o. q. day. 
5. Plavix 75 mg p.o. q. day. 
6. Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day. 
7. Isosorbide dinitrate 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. 8. Atenolol 100 mg p.o. q. day. 
ALLERGIES: He has no known allergies. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION UPON ADMISSION: Blood pressure of 123/51 , heart rate of 48 , respiratory rate of 16. 
General appearance: He is a well-developed , well-nourished , and well-hydrated male , in mildly acute distress. 
HEENT: Normocephalic and atraumatic. 
Extraocular motions are intact. 
Pupils are equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation at 4 mm. 
The conjunctivae are pink and the sclera is anicteric. 
The oropharynx is significant for a slight bite mark on the tongue , without any active bleeding. 
There are moist mucosal membranes. 
The neck is supple , and there is no midline tenderness. 
There is no JVD. 
The chest is clear to auscultation. 
There is tenderness over the right ribs , as well as mild sternal tenderness. 
The heart is regular rhythm , although markedly bradycardiac. 
The abdomen is soft , nontender , and nondistended. 
There are good bowel sounds in all four quadrants. 
There is no CVA tenderness. 
The pelvis is stable to rock. 
Extremities: There is tenderness in the abrasions over the left knee. 
The left knee is in an immobilizer , at the time of admission to the floor. 
He has full range of motion in ankles , shoulders , and elbows bilaterally. 
There is decreased range of motion in the left knee. 
There is no bony tenderness along any of the long bones of the upper or lower extremities , with exception of the knee. 
Peripheral vascular , dorsalis pedis , posterior , tibial , and radial pulses are all equal bilaterally. 
Neuro exam: He is awake , alert , and oriented x3. 
Cranial nerves II-XII are intact. 
Motor is 5/5 in the upper and lower extremities bilaterally. 
Sensation is equal bilaterally , in the upper extremities , lower extremities , and face. 
There is no dysmetria or dysarthria. 
Finger-to-nose is fast and accurate bilaterally. 
There is no drift. 
Skin is warm , dry , and well-perfused. 
LABORATORY DATA UPON ADMISSION: CT C-spine negative. 
CT head shows a right frontal subacute infarct. 
CT chest shows anterior fifth rib fractures bilaterally. 
There was also some supraclavicular stranding along the left side , without any evidence of vessel injury. 
CT of the abdomen and pelvis is negative , except for a ruptured renal cyst. 
He was also incidentally noted to show diverticulosis , without any diverticulitis. 
The CT of the thoracic and lumbar spines also demonstrated no fractures , although there were incidentally noted to be anterior osteophytes in numerous levels. 
CT of the chest demonstrated the rib fractures , but was otherwise negative. 
Laboratory , sodium 138 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 103 , bicarbonate 25 , BUN 28 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 185 , and anion gap is 10 , AST and ALT are 20 and 25 respectively. 
Alkaline phosphatase is 80. Lipase is 51. Calcium is 8.8 , the albumin is 4.6 , the CK is 89 , CKMB is 3.6 , and troponin was less than assay. 
His serum toxicology screen was negative for aspirin , Tylenol , benzodiazepine , barbiturates , and tricyclics. 
Urine drug screen is also negative. 
PT , PTT , and INR were 13 , 25.8 , and 0.9 respectively. 
CBC was significant for white count of 12.0 , hemoglobin and hematocrit were 14.6 and 42.2 , and platelets are 250. 
Urinalysis was negative. 
Review of the prehospital EKG demonstrated a complete ( third-degree ) heart block. 
However , EKG done immediately upon admission to the Petersram Medical Center demonstrated a bifascicular block , with a rate in the 40s. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: 1. Cardiovascular: He was admitted to the Cardiac Step-Down Unit. 
He had Zoll pacer pads were placed upon his chest , and atropine remained at his bedside. 
He also had an additional Zoll pacer pads , as well as the pacemaker standby at the bedside , however , these were not needed , as he has completed asymptomatic with his bifascicular block. 
He had serial enzymes , which were performed , he was ruled out for myocardial infarction. 
He went to the Cardiac Cath Lab , which demonstrated some coronary artery disease. 
Please see the dictated cardiology reports for the findings of the Cath Lab. 
It was felt , however , this was unchanged from prior studies. 
He also went to the Electrophysiology Lab. 
They were unable to induce any ventricular tachycardia or other dysrhythmias during the prolonged EP studies. 
He had a pacemaker inserted. 
The pacemaker was followed by the Electrophysiology Service , and was found to be working adequately. 
The attending was Dr. Ava Schoeppner , with the Electrophysiology Service. 
Dr. Gruntz with the Cardiology Service saw him and was attending on record. 
2. Neurology: He was seen by the Neurology Service. 
So , this was under Dr. Fiona Authur , the attending neurologisT on the case. 
He had an MRI/MRA performed of his head and neck. 
The diffusion-weighted images demonstrated no evidence of any abnormality. 
There was a region of increase signal intensity on the T2 and FLAIR images , involving the vasoganglion , extending the corona radiata. 
Therefore , given the fact that signal was seen on the T2 and FLAIR , not on the diffusion-weighted , it was felt that this was at least 10 days old. 
Therefore , this was not felt to be either the cause nor an affect of the motor vehicle collision. 
It was most likely represented an old CVA , which was not previously detected. 
Given the fact that the patient remained asymptomatic , and had a normal neurological exam , and radiographic data demonstrated that this infarct was more than 10 days old , and this was not further addressed. 
An MRA of his head and neck demonstrated tortuous vertebrobasilar system. 
The MRI/MRA of the neck was essentially normal , however , the left bifurcation was thought to be without any significant stenosis. 
The right bifurcation is probably without significant stenosis , however , could not be completed excluded. 
Given artifact , this could be further followed up with an outpatient venous duplex of the carotid arteries. 
3. Musculoskeletal: He was seen by the Orthopedic Service in the Emergency Department at the time of the trauma , he ultimately had an MRI that was performed of his knee. 
This showed tears of the medial and lateral menisci. 
There was no evidence of fracture. 
He remained in a knee immobilizer. 
He saw Physical Therapy , which felt that further therapy would be indicated. 
With the impression of the Orthopedic Service that no acute intervention was needed , and that he should follow-up with Sports Medicine or Orthopedics in approximately 3-4 weeks. 
In addition , he was noted to have several rib fractures. 
The rib fractures were felt to be the source of his pain , he continue to complain of some inspiratory pain throughout his chest. 
However , he adamantly denied any pain throughout his chest wall upon inspiring. 
It was therefore felt that given the negative enzymes and the negative Cath , and the known rib fractures that the chest pain was strictly a result of a musculoskeletal pain. 
This pain was well controlled with the combination of Dilaudid and oxycodone. 
He was encouraged to take several deep breaths per hour to reduce the risk of atelectasis or pneumonia. 
4. Infectious Disease: There was no evidence of any acute infection. 
Of note , his white count was trending upwards , on the last two days of admission. 
It was felt that this probably represented stress , given all the recent procedures that were done , including the catheterization and the electrophysiology studies , rather than A2 infection. 
The chest x-ray was performed on the 17 of August , which demonstrated no infiltrate. 
This was reviewed with an attending radiologist who reported low lung volumes. 
Otherwise , it was essentially negative. 
In addition , a repeat urinalysis was performed. 
The results are pending at the time of dictation , however , will be followed up prior to the patient's discharge from the hospital. 
The patient appears well , and states that he is feeling at his best since the accident. 
However , further workup for his white count is not performed at the present time , however , the patient is informed , as the Rehab Hospital and the discharge summary , which show that the patient seem to develop any evidence of infection that he should be reevaluated by a physician. 
5. Nutrition: The patient is able to eat without any difficulty. 
He was eating regular house diabetic/cardiac diet. 
6. Hypercholesterolemia: He was continued on his Zocor throughout the hospitalization. 
7. Prophylaxis: He was initially treated with Lovenox 40 mg sub-Q. 
q. day for a prophylaxis against DVTs. 
He is also on aspirin and Plavix for secondary cardiac and neurological prophylaxis. 
The Lovenox is discontinued , at the request of the Electrophysiology Service on the 4 of April 8. Endocrine: Given the numerous contrast studies , initially his metformin was held. 
However , he was later restarted on this. 
In addition , he was continued on his glyburide and covered with sliding scale insulin. 
His blood sugar was never any significant problem during his hospitalization. 
9. Disposition: The patient will be going to Rehab Facility , in stable condition. 
At the Rehab , he will continue to get physical therapy , which he has received in the hospital. 
It was felt that a short course of rehab would benefit the patient to allow him to go back living independently again. 
He will be discharged to the Rehab in stable condition. 
MEDICATIONS AT DISCHARGE: 1. Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
2. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q. day. 
3. Atenolol 100 mg p.o. q. day. 
4. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5. Glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. 6. Dilaudid 1-2 mg IV q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
7. Isosorbide dinitrate 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. 8. Ativan 1-2 mg IV p.r.n. anxiety. 
9. Oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
10. 
Senna tablets 2 p.o. b.i.d. 11. 
Keflex 250 mg p.o. q.i.d. x12 doses. 
Keflex should be completed on Monday night. 
12. Zocor 80 mg p.o. q.h.s. 13. 
Ambien 5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 14. 
Tessalon 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. cough. 
15. 
Plavix 75 mg p.o. q. day. 
16. 
Novalog slides. 
17. Prilosec 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. 18. Maalox 1-2 tabs p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
The patient has following discharge appointments. 
He has appointments with Dr. Rosalyn Mcalmond , with Sports Medicine , Dr. Ava Schoeppner in 10-14 days , and Dr. Victor Money in one week. 
Appointment with Dr. Mcalmond is in 3 weeks. 
ADDENDUM: Mr. Vlasak had this pacemaker placed and was recovering uneventfully. 
However , it was noted that he started having increasing white count. 
It was felt this was perhaps due to a mild urine infection and was started on Levaquin. 
However , he started the next day complaining increasing pain in his knee. 
At this time , his white count had risen to 23 , 000. 
The knee was obviously a concern for possible infection. 
His knee was warm , was tender and was erythematous , compared to the contralateral side. 
As a result , the Orthopedic Service was again consulted. 
An arthrocentesis was performed on his left knee , this was a dry tap; no fluid was able to be obtained. 
The subsequent day , he was complaining of increasing pain , and the sed rate returned in the 99 with a CRP of 190. 
The EP Service again evaluated the patient , and felt that there was no evidence of any clear infection from the pacer site. 
He continued to have no erythema or tenderness around the pacer site. 
His chest x-ray was essentially unremarkable. 
The next day ( 10/9/05 ) , he was seen by the Rheumatology Service , under Dr. Strite who also felt this was most likely to be prepatellar bursitis , probably septic in nature , with a hematoma. 
He was asked to seen by the Infectious Disease Service , under Dr. Lamorte and Abe Girardi He was started on Ancef 1 gm q.8h. 
A PICC line will be placed later today on the 5/15/05 and he will be discharged to rehab. 
Of note , he has been afebrile for more than 48 hours while on the Ancef , and his white count has improved dramatically , into the approximately 10000 range. 
He will continue to get IV Ancef q.8h. 
for an additional 12 days. 
New consultants on the case , again Dr. Lamorte and Dr. Abe Girardi with Infectious Disease , Dr Brannigan and Dr. Claretha Hendy with Orthopedics and Dr. Strite with Rheumatology. 
eScription document: 6-7522492 IS CC: Rosalyn Mcalmond M.D. PUO /Sports Medicine CC: Victor Money MD Peake Xing Arl Arill Con Con La Niiclatonla Spo CC: Rossie Mankoski M.D. Put Wathern Hospital CC: Jeannette Lackner MD Edsmen's Zelmcarlpe Pkwy. 
A CC: Ava Schoeppner MD Cardiac Arrhythmia Service Pagham University Of Ok Pacean Ttl Valle Yonkers Leigh CC: Katheryn Gruntz MD Wa Clairbcand St. , Jomore , Virginia 36426 Dictated By: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE Attending: GRUNTZ , KATHERYN Dictation ID 2448399 D: 5/2/05 T: 10/1/05