547888517 | PUO | 64606051 | | 523396 | 2/6/2001 12:00:00 AM | ARRYTHMIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/9/2001 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 3/16/2001 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 52-year-old female with a history of lupus , hypertension , asthma , breast cancer status post mastectomy and chemotherapy , rheumatic heart disease and atrial fibrillation who was found pauses of up to 6.6 seconds on a Holter monitor and was admitted for consideration of pacer placement. 
The patient states that over the last several months since October , 2001 , she has noted increasing dyspnea on exertion and decreased exercise tolerance. 
She also has noticed episodes of palpitation. 
She presented to her primary care physician in October , 2001 with these complaints. 
He put a Holter monitor on her 10/1/01 which showed her to have paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with rates between 67 and 214 with a mean rate of 117 beats per minute. 
Her primary care physician , Dr. Douse , initially put the patient on digoxin and Coumadin. 
Her rate remained elevated , however , so he changed the Coumadin to Cardizem. 
About one month ago he also added propafenone 150 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
On 10/5 she presented to her cardiologist , Dr. Bernas , complaining of continued palpitations and ankle edema. 
He stopped her Cardizem at that time as he felt that was what was contributing to her lower extremity edema and placed her on atenolol 25 mg p.o.q.d. instead. 
She had a leepy Holter monitor placed from 8/29/23. 
Wednesday morning , her second day of atenolol , she noted having episodes where "I felt my heart pause and then surge when it started to beat again". 
This was associated with lightheadedness x several seconds. 
She did not have any associated chest pain , shortness of breath , nausea and vomiting , diaphoresis or syncope. 
She called Dr. Bernas on 6/16 and he told her to stop her atenolol and continue her propafenone. 
Over the last two days she has had flutter episodes of irregular heart beat but has had no lightheadedness since stopping the atenolol on Wednesday. 
She has noted increased shortness of breath over the last couple of days , as well , on climbing one flight of stairs. 
She also has orthopnea using two pillows at night , does not have PND , does have lower extremity edema. 
On the day of admission which was 10/25/01 Dr. Barnaba received a transmitted Holter recording from Potwood Kinlis Wellscajohns Health Center that showed the patient had normal sinus rhythm with episodes of atrial fibrillation with high rates but also that she had episodes of 6.6 second pauses. 
Thus , she called the patient and had her sent via ambulance to the I Warho Hospital emergency department for consideration of admission for pacemaker placement. 
In the emergency department the patient's vitals were she was afebrile with a pulse of 112 , blood pressure 150/81 , breathing 18 , satting 95% on room air. 
Her review of systems was negative for fever , chills , or sweats , chest pain , syncope , abdominal pain , nausea and vomiting , diarrhea , dysuria or rash. 
In the emergency department she revealed 40 of IV Lasix and was sent to the floor. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: GENERAL: She is a 52-year-old female resting comfortably at 45 degrees , in no acute distress. 
HEENT: Pupils equal , round and reactive to light and accommodation. 
Oropharynx revealed moist mucous membranes , no erythema. 
Neck veins appeared to be around 10 cm. 
CHEST: Wheezing bilaterally and crackles at both bases. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and rhythm , normal S1S2 , did have an S4 and did have a 3/6 holosystolic murmur loudest at the apex to the axilla. 
She also had a 1/6 diastolic decrescendo murmur at the left upper sternal border. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender , nondistended , with good bowel sounds. 
EXTREMITIES: Warm , well perfused. 
She did have 2+ lower extremity edema. 
LABORATORY DATA: On admission. 
Sodium 146 , potassium 3.6 , chloride 117 , bicarb 19 , BUN 15 , creatinine 0.9 , glucose 120 , CK 76 , troponin 0 , CBC showed a white count of 8.73 , hematocrit 29.1 which was around her baseline. 
Her baseline had been 30-38 on the last admission. 
Her platelets were 289. 
ESR was 75 which is what it had been in July . 
INR was 3.1 Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly and pulmonary vascular redistribution. 
Electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm at 94 with a normal axis , normal intervals. 
She did have left atrial enlargement as well as right atrial enlargement. 
Her last echo done at LMC on 10/13/01 showed an ejection fraction of 63% , concentric left ventricular hypertrophy , LV systolic function preserved , a thickened mitral valve , moderate to severe mitral regurgitation plus left atrial enlargement , aortic valve thickened , mild AI , no AS. Moderate tricuspid regurgitation , moderately increased pulmonary artery pressures , normal RV plus her atrial enlargement and they made notes that the mitral regurgitation was increased on this echo when compared with an echo done one year prior at LMC . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Breast cancer status post left mastectomy with lymph node dissection in 5/1 Pathology revealed invasive ductal carcinoma , grade 3/3 , node negative. 
She is status post four cycles of Adriamycin and cytoxan. 
2. History of lupus x 21 years. 
3. History of rheumatic heart disease. 
4. History of hypertension. 
5. History of asthma diagnosed three years ago. 
6. History of recent atrial fibrillation. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Lisinopril 40 q.d.; prednisone 10 q.d.; Coumadin 5 q.d.; Prevacid 30 q.d.; chloroquine 100 q.d.; Plaquenil 200 b.i.d.; Lasix 20 q.d.; albuterol inhaler p.r.n.; Flovent 220 2-3 puffs b.i.d.; Flonase b.i.d.; propafenone 150 t.i.d. 
ALLERGIES: Tetracycline which give her nausea and vomiting and sometimes she got that with aspirin. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is a nurse currently on a medical leave of absence. 
She lives alone. 
Tobacco history she does smoke 1 pack per day since she was 23. 
No ethanol. 
Father with prostate cancer. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1 ) Cardiovascular: From an ischemia standpoint she ruled out for a myocardial infarction. 
We did continue her antihypertensive regimen of lisinopril 40 q.d. 
From a pump standpoint we felt that perhaps her mitral regurgitation was the main cause of her 2-3 month history of increasing dyspnea on exertion , exercise intolerance , and increasing orthopnea. 
Thus , we got a repeat echo which showed borderline left ventricular hypertrophy with an estimated ejection fraction of 55% , normal RV. 
The mitral valve was moderately thickened and rheumatic in appearance. 
The mitral valve area was estimated at 1.3 cm squared although this may have an under estimate. 
There is severe mitral regurgitation and moderate left atrial enlargement. 
The aortic valve was calcified. 
There was mild aortic insufficiency. 
There was mild tricuspid regurgitation with a regurgitant velocity of 3.5 consistent with mild elevation in pulmonary systolic pressures of approximately 48 mmHg plus right atrial pressure. 
Given her severe and symptomatic mitral regurgitation we then decided that she would likely benefit from a mitral valve replacement. 
Then we proceeded to cardiac catheterization. 
Her left heart catheterization showed a left dominant system with clean coronary arteries. 
Her right heart catheterization revealed elevated right ventricular and pulmonary artery pressures and elevated pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 31. 
She was diuresed several kg from her admission weight with IV Lasix and she was continued on her ace inhibitor for afterload reduction. 
Consultation with Dr. Suyama of cardiothoracic surgery was obtained and he felt that patient would indeed benefit greatly from an MVR. 
Thus , plan was made for patient to be discharged home and then to be readmitted electively when Dr. Suyama returned from vacation for an MVR. 
From a rate and rhythm standpoint , the patient was in normal sinus rhythm for the majority of her hospital stay. 
We continued her propafenone and Coumadin for her history of atrial fibrillation and she did have excellent rate control on this. 
She had no further pauses on telemetry during hospital stay and thus it was felt that given she was asymptomatic and did not have any pauses off of beta blockade , that she did not need pacemaker placement on this admission. 
2 ) Pulmonary: From a pulmonary standpoint we felt that likely she had cardiac asthma as with diuresis her wheezing and shortness of breath was nearly 100% improved. 
3 ) Rheumatology: From a rheumatologic standpoint her lupus was in good control. 
She did not have of her typical lupus flare symptoms such as arthralgias or rash , fever and , thus , we continued her on her Plaquenil , her chloroquine and her prednisone. 
4 ) Renal: She did not appear to have any renal involvement of her lupus and her renal function was within normal limits throughout her stay. 
5 ) Heme: She had a normal cytic anemia at 29 which was within her baseline range of 29-38. 
Full iron studies were sent and it was felt that it was most likely consistent with anemia of chronic disease. 
6 ) Prophylaxis: From a prophylaxis standpoint she was on Coumadin for atrial fibrillation so was not considered for heparin and she was continued on Prilosec throughout her stay. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Plaquenil 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.; lisinopril 40 mg p.o.q.d.; magnesium gluconate 2 grams p.o. b.i.d.; prednisone 10 mg p.o. q. a.m.; propafenone 225 mg p.o. t.i.d.; Coumadin 5 mg p.o.q.d.; K-Dur 60 mEq p.o.q.d.; Flovent 220 mg inhaled b.i.d.; Flonase 2 sprays nasally q.d. for her allergies and postnasal drip; Prevacid 30 mg p.o.q.d.; chloroquine 100 mg p.o.q.d.; Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
FOLLOWUP: She had an appointment to follow up with Dr. Bernas in one week's time and to follow up with Dr. Suyama in two weeks' time when he returned from vacation. 
At that time would then follow up with an elective admission for MVR. 
Dictated By: CLEORA GEKAS , M.D. OI99 Attending: CARA NEVA KENEKHAM , M.D. WA5 IL259/942290 Batch: 17370 Index No. LQDEDB1DQK D: 1/1/01 T: 6/26/01