842385275 | PUO | 27156611 | | 133894 | 2/25/2002 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/19/2002 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 1/23/2002 Mr. Bridenbaker is a 73-year-old gentleman who returned to I Warho Hospital to the emergency room on 8/20/02 with crescendo spontaneous angina and shortness of breath. 
He is three and one half months after a presentation with subacute left circumflex thrombosis , ischemic mitral regurgitation , pulmonary edema and a small nontransmural myocardial infarction. 
His angiography at that time revealed diffuse coronary atherosclerosis with attenuation and diffuse narrowing of the left anterior descending coronary artery and a small codominant right coronary system with extensive diffuse disease. 
Large circumflex system with focally severe and additional diffuse but noncritical stenosis with superimposed thrombus. 
Dilatation of the left circumflex resulted in extensive dissection but with eventual achievement of a very good angiographic and clinical result after placement of multiple stents and that his course was that of gradual recovery and uneventful return home. 
He remained frail and limited prior to this admission and approximately six weeks prior to admission , began to have occasional pain and shortness of breath. 
He went to the cardiac catheterization laboratory for intervention. 
He underwent a rotablator procedure on 8/20/02 in the cath. 
laboratory which resulted in perforation of circumflex coronary artery into the pericardial space with extravasation of blood. 
He went into cardiogenic shock which was alleviated by intra-aortic balloon pump placement and was seen in consultation by the cardiac surgery service for emergent coronary artery bypass grafting. 
He went to the operating room on 8/20/02 where he underwent emergent coronary artery revascularization. 
He sustained a retained rotablator burr in the left circumflex system and a left circumflex perforation. 
He underwent coronary artery bypass grafting x 5 with left internal mammary artery to the left anterior descending coronary artery , saphenous vein graft to the posterior descending artery , saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal #2 , #3 and #1 and removal of a rotablator burr , repair of the left ventricular apex vent. 
site. 
He came off bypass on 2 mcg of epinephrine and his intra-aortic balloon pump. 
During his code in the cath. 
lab , the patient had become hypotensive requiring intubation and intra-aortic balloon pump placement as noted above. 
A Foley catheter was placed by the urology service attending with much difficulty. 
His chest was left open at the time of operation as the patient was coagulopathic and Esmarch closure was placed. 
His postoperative course: His coagulopathy was reversed with blood products and his chest was closed without event on August , 02. 
He was also seen in consultation by the diabetic management service to help with his diabetic management. 
He continued to have postoperative cardiac failure , remained on Dopamine , intra-aortic balloon pump , was slowly weaned and diuresis ensued. 
His intra-aortic balloon pump was removed on postoperative day three uneventfully. 
He continued to make good improvement and was extubated on postoperative day four and transferred to the step-down unit. 
He had mild confusion but has had a history of cerebrovascular accident in the past. 
He still requires diuresis. 
Chest tubes remained in place for very high chest tube output. 
He was seen in consultation by the vascular surgery service for his severe peripheral vascular disease and painful right foot. 
He was also continued to be followed by urologic service and his Foley was left in place. 
He did have a bump in his BUN and creatinine and renal consult was obtained and helps with management of his fluid balance. 
He was also seen in consultation by the thoracic surgery service for increased chest tube output , mainly from the right pleural chest tube. 
His other chest tubes were discontinued without any complications and his acute renal failure began to resolve. 
He received Albumin and packed cells to correct hypoalbuminemia and also his postoperative anemia along with Lasix for diuresis. 
He continued to make slow improvement and advanced nutritionally. 
He had a vascular MRI which was done as requested by vascular surgery service in preparation for potential revascularization to his right leg. 
He continued to improve. 
His BUN and creatinine were 90/3.5 at their highest level and have been slowly declining over the past several weeks to today's level of 47 for BUN and 1.3 for creatinine. 
He continues to have low blood cell counts; his white blood cell count is 3 today and his hematocrit is 32.8. 
Platelet count is 98. He will require follow-up for these on a two times weekly basis. 
His MRI shows mild irregularity of the distal abdominal aorta as well as the left common iliac artery , mild narrowing over long segment about three cm. over the right external iliac artery. 
There is moderate focal narrowing in the right common femoral artery at the bifurcation between the superficial femoral and deep femoral and there is complete occlusion in the distal right superficial femoral artery with reconstitution three cm further. 
Multiple areas of focal narrowing are seen in the proximal and distal left superficial femoral artery , high grade stenosis in the proximal left popliteal artery. 
The posterior tibial artery on the right side is completely occluded proximally. 
On the left side , there is high grade stenosis in the anterior tibial proximally as well as occlusion of the anterior tibial in the mid calf with reconstitution distally and complete occlusion of the posterior tibial artery at it's origin. 
Peroneal shows moderate posterior stenosis. 
He has moderate to severe atherosclerotic disease in the lower extremities with multiple areas of narrowing inclusion. 
He is to follow-up with Dr. Rossie Mankoski , Division of Vascular Surgery for revascularization of his lower extremities. 
Mr. Bridenbaker is to be discharged on the following medications: Meclizine 20 mg once a day , simvastatin 10 mg once a day , Lopressor 25 mg three times a day , enteric coated aspirin 325 mg once a day , Nystatin suspension 5 ml four times a day , swish and swallow , Miracle cream topical three times a day , Lupron 25.2 mg q. 3 months as Depot injection , NPH insulin Humulin 16 units subcu every morning , regular insulin 6 units subcu every morning , Lasix 40 mg once a day , NPH insulin 10 units subcu at 4:30 p.m. pre-dinner , please and also Humulin , Ditropan 2.5 mg three times a day. 
CZI sliding scale , Percocet one tablet every 6 to 8 h as needed for foot pain , Albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg every 6 hours by neb for wheezing , Atrovent nebulizer 0.5 mg four times a day for wheezing , Imodium 2 mg by mouth every six hours as needed for diarrhea. 
He is to be discharged to the care of Dr. Loida Golebiowski , Division of Cardiology , I Warho Hospital and also to Dr. Tommye Andracki I Warho Hospital , Wa Land as above. 
Dictated By: CHRISTY CLARDY , P.A. Attending: ISABELLE E. COLASAMTE , M.D. CL7 EZ888/070674 Batch: 8124 Index No. H8QTCP18EL D: 4/5/02 T: 4/5/02 CC: ROSSIE MANKOSKI , M.D. EX35 QUINN J. KUSH , M.D. PQ5 TOMMYE ANDRACKI , M.D. LP8