552459857 | PUO | 45048123 | | 569965 | 9/22/1999 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/8/1999 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 6/11/1999 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. Stroke. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS: 2. Coronary artery disease. 
3. Hypertension. 
4. Hypercholesterolemia. 5. Type II diabetes mellitus. 
6. Gastroesophageal reflux disease. 
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURES AND OPERATIONS: The patient had a head MRI , an echocardiogram , and head CT scan. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 61-year-old male was in his usual state of health until the morning of admission when he woke up with speech difficulty noticed by his wife. 
The patient was noted to make paraphasic errors. 
In addition , there was a question of a right facial droop. 
The patient presented to the emergency room. 
There were no other neurologic symptoms. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Physical examination on admission revealed pulse 78 , temperature 98.8 , and blood pressure 160/78. 
The patient was in no apparent distress. 
The head and neck examination was unremarkable. 
The neck was supple. 
The thyroid gland was not enlarged. 
The lungs were clear. 
There was a normal S1 and S2 , with no murmurs , gallops or rubs. 
The abdomen was soft and non-tender. 
There was no peripheral edema. 
The patient was alert and oriented to his name and to place. 
The patient had difficulty giving the exact date and month. 
The patient was unable to register three objects properly. 
The patient's speech was non-fluent with impaired naming. 
Repetition was also affected. 
There was right left confusion , severe acalculia , as well as poor reading and writing. 
The patient had no neglect or apraxia. 
The patient was able to copy a complicated figure without problems. 
The cranial nerves were intact , except for a mild right upper motor neuron facial palsy. 
There was no pronator drift and the strength was 5/5 in all four extremities. 
Sensation was intact to primal modalities. 
The reflexes were 2+ and symmetric with downgoing toes. 
The patient had normal gait. 
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory data on admission revealed serum electrolytes to be normal , except for a potassium of 5.3. 
The glucose was 168. 
The white count was 7.8 , hematocrit 38.8 , and platelets 223. 
A PT and PTT were normal. 
A head CT scan showed a subtle hyperdensity in the left frontal region. 
This was later confirmed by MRI. 
The patient had carotid ultrasounds , which showed a 60% stenosis of the left internal carotid artery. 
The right internal carotid was stenosed to 25%. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the hospital with a diagnosis of probable embolic stroke. 
An MRI showed a wedge shaped frontal lobe infarct. 
Clinically , the patient's speech improved and he regained fluency within the next 24 hours. 
The patient's naming was relatively preserved. 
Comprehension was intact for simple commands. 
However , the patient continued to have right left indiscrimination , acalculia , as well as a defect in reading and writing. 
The patient was initially unable to add two plus two , but by the end of the hospitalization , he was able to add nine plus six. 
However , the patient's calculation never returned to his baseline function. 
The patient had an echocardiogram , which revealed an ejection fraction of 60% , with no significant valvular disease. 
There was no thrombus noted in the left atrium. 
The patient was started on intravenous Heparin on admission , and was then converted to oral Coumadin. 
The patient ruled out for myocardial infarction on admission. 
The patient was kept on a cardiac monitor with no cardiac events noted. 
The patient was seen by the Neurobehavioral Service because of his aphasia. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient was on Allopurinol , Atenolol , Colchicine , Prilosec , Lipitor , and Coumadin. 
FOLLOW-UP: The patient was instructed to follow-up with Dr. Stephco of the Neurology Service at Pagham University Of . 
Dictated By: FLORETTA THRONEBURG , M.D. EL76 Attending: MIRNA C. BABULA , M.D. PM56 RX162/9603 Batch: 31413 Index No. NNMSZJ9E90 D: 8/14/99 T: 11/1/99 CC: 1. MYONG B. STEPHCO , M.D. KV4 QF9