281801955 | PUO | 38766817 | | 588038 | 6/5/1996 12:00:00 AM | PANCREATITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/5/1996 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 11/6/1996 ADMISSION DIAGNOSES: ABDOMINAL PAIN AND CONSTIPATION. 
OTHER DIAGNOSES: 1 ) HYPONATREMIA. 2 ) DIABETES. 3 ) HYPERTENSION. 4 ) RIGHT FOOT CALCANEAL FLAP. 5 ) HEMATURIA. 6 ) NEUROGENIC BLADDER. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 52 year old female presented with a four day history of nausea , vomiting , and abdominal discomfort and a one week history of right scapular pain radiating down bilateral arms , worse on the right. 
This was a 52 year old female with severe and poorly controlled diabetes mellitus and hypertension recently hospitalized for repair of a diabetic foot ulcer. 
She was discharged to rehabilitation postoperatively on Clindamycin and apparently did well at rehabilitation. 
She was recently , this past week , discharged home and four days prior to admission , however , the patient noted the onset of nausea and vomiting two to three times a day and severe constipation. 
There was no blood in her vomit , no sick contacts , no bowel movements for the past four or five days , no hematemesis , and no fever or chills. 
She was unable to keep down any p.o. She also noted over the past week an increase in her chronic bilateral arm pain and onset of new right scapular pain. 
Arm pain and hand pain had been attributed to carpal tunnel syndrome in the past. 
She reported chest pressure but denied shortness of breath , diaphoresis , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , orthopnea , and any other chest pain syndrome. 
Patient also complained of right upper quadrant epigastric abdominal tenderness. 
She had a history of an open cholecystectomy in 1980. 
She did not drink alcohol and she had had no other abdominal surgery. 
The pain was associated with nausea and vomiting. 
She presented to the Emergency Ward and was found to have a lipase of 529. 
She was evaluated for acute pancreatitis. 
She received hydration in the Emergency Room and was admitted to the general medical service for work-up. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: No sick contacts , anxiety brought out burning in the chest , no history of diabetic ketoacidosis , negative for vaginal discharge and diarrhea but history of chronic constipation , and no history of hepatitis , lung disease , or peptic ulcer disease. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Vasotec 10 mg p.o. q.d. , NPH 60 q.a.m. and 20 q.p.m. , Tegretol p.r.n. for pain , Clindamycin 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and some opiate the patient had been taking without a bowel regimen. 
ALLERGIES: Augmentin , Keflex , and Percocet. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Married , no smoking , no ethanol , no sexually transmitted diseases , no recent travel history , and no sick contacts. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) Diabetes. 2 ) Hypertension. 3 ) Carpal tunnel syndrome. 
4 ) Angina. 5 ) Peripheral vascular disease. 
6 ) Left lower extremity ulcers. 
7 ) Persantine MIBI done in 11/23 showed moderate ischemic anterior wall. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature was 97.8 , heart rate 84 , blood pressure 124/66 , respiratory rate 22 on two liters saturating 98%. 
HEENT: Benign. 
NECK: Without thyroid masses , supple , and no adenopathy. 
BACK: No costovertebral angle tenderness and reproducible tenderness over right scapula. 
PULSES: 2+ throughout. 
NODES: No cervical , occipital , axillary , or supraclavicular adenopathy. 
HEART: S1 , S2 , and no rubs , murmurs , or gallops. 
LUNGS: Bilateral basilar crackles , left greater than right , otherwise clear to auscultation. 
ABDOMEN: Slightly distended , mildly tympanitic , decreased bowel sounds but present , mild to moderate abdominal tenderness that was diffuse but increased on palpation in the epigastric region , no fluid wave , and no rebound. 
EXTREMITIES: Right ankle ulcer , dry. 
RECTAL: Guaiac negative. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Nonfocal. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Chest x-ray showed mild increase in heart size and no effusions or infiltrates. 
KUB showed no evidence of obstruction and full of stool. 
EKG showed normal sinus rhythm at 84 and downsloping ST segments inferiorly and laterally that were not new. 
Laboratories showed a sodium of 115 , potassium 4.4 , bicarbonate of 14 , and arterial blood gas showed pH of 7.48 , pCO2 of 36 , pO2 of 112 , lipase of 529 that on repeat was 351. 
Urinalysis showed 3+ budding yeast , 3+ bacteria , and white blood cells 5-10. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was admitted to the general medical service with abdominal pain and hyponatremia. 
Abdominal pain was felt to be secondary to longstanding immobilization and morphine precipitating constipation. 
Abdominal CT was negative. 
Pain improved with aggressive bowel regimen. 
She was found to have a neurogenic bladder and developed hematuria due to Foley trauma. 
This cleared with irrigation and ofloxacin treatment times five days was recommended by urology. 
She had a follow-up plastic surgery appointment scheduled for the following day after discharge. 
Her hyponatremia of 115 resolved with hydration with normal saline. 
Patient was discharged with normal liver function tests and normal amylase and lipase. 
Serum sodium had returned to baseline. 
DISPOSITION: She is discharged in stable condition. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Vasotec 10 mg p.o. q.d. , NPH insulin 30 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , NPH insulin 10 units subcutaneously q.p.m. , Cisapride 10 mg p.o. q.i.d. , ofloxacin 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. times four days , and Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
Dictated By: MOSHE J. SHUGRUE , M.D. UB39 Attending: CHANTELL F. BADALAMENTI , M.D. CH89 QL007/1193 Batch: 48280 Index No. WZOX8E8XC9 D: 6/7/97 T: 8/12/97