517077919 | PUO | 45227626 | | 890431 | 1/13/2000 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/29/2000 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 11/9/2000 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1. ADRIAMYCIN INDUCED CARDIOMYOPATHY. 
2. HYPERTENSION. 
3. DIABETES. 
4. SARCOIDOSIS. 5. LEFT BREAST CANCER. 
6. STATUS POST LUMPECTOMY. 7. STATUS POST X-RAY THERAPY. 
8. STATUS POST CHEMOTHERAPY WITH ADRIAMYCIN IN 1984. 
9. HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA. 10. DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSIS. 
11. 
OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA. 
12. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 
13. STATUS POST MYOCARDIAL INFARCTIONS X 2. HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 56-year-old woman with a history of breast cancer and cardiomyopathy , secondary to Adriamycin , as well as other medical problems , with left hip pain that has been a chronic issue and which prompted her to present to A Salt Medical Center Emergency Department on January , 2000. 
In the Emergency Department , the patient became progressively lethargic and an arterial blood gas there revealed hypoventilation , presumed secondary to obesity and the patient's congestive heart failure. 
Blood sugar in the Emergency Department was found to be 46 and the patient was given D50 , but eventually required a D10 drip to maintain her sugars. 
The patient was also placed on BIPAP to maintain O2 saturations. 
It seemed that the combination of congestive heart failure and poor baseline respiration , secondary to body habitus , led to this acute worsening. 
The patient was stabilized in the Emergency Department and sent to the floor on BIPAP. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history included Adriamycin induced cardiomyopathy , hypertension , diabetes , sarcoid left breast cancer , hypercholesterolemia , deep venous thromboses , OSA , and coronary artery disease , status post myocardial infarctions x 2. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: At the time of admission , the patient was on Elavil 25 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Dulcolax 5-10 mg p.o. q. day p.r.n. , digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q. day , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lasix 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Robitussin DM 10 ml q. 4 hours p.r.n. , hydralazine 25 mg p.o. q.i.d. , insulin NPH 30 mg subcutaneously b.i.d. , Zestril 40 mg p.o. q. day , Maalox , Milk and Magnesia , nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingual p.r.n. , Senna tablets p.r.n. , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q. day , Zocor 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. , oxycontin 10 mg p.o. q. 12 hours , oxycodone 5-10 mg q. 6 hours p.r.n. pain , and Prevacid 30 mg p.o. q. day. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient's social history revealed that she lives alone with family help for daily chores. 
The patient denied a history of tobacco or alcohol use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Physical examination revealed the patient to be an obese woman with vital signs revealing temperature 96 , pulse 93 , blood pressure 115/60 , respiratory rate 24 , and saturations 78% on 1.5 liters of oxygen , with 97% on 4 liters of oxygen. 
HEENT examination showed no jugular venous distention. 
The neck was thick. 
There was no lymphadenopathy and no carotid bruits. 
Extraocular movements were intact. 
The pupils were equal , round and reactive to light. 
Cardiovascular examination showed a regular rate and rhythm without murmur , rub , or gallop. 
The lungs showed good breath sounds bilaterally , and few crackles in both bases anteriorly. 
The abdomen was non-distended and non-tender , obese , firm , and with hypoactive bowel sounds. 
The extremities showed generalized anasarca. 
Neurological examination showed the patient to be alert and responsive at the time of examination. 
Cranial nerves II-XII were intact. 
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory data on admission revealed sodium 140 , potassium 5.7 , chloride 99 , bicarb 34 , BUN 32 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 40 , white count 8.2 , hematocrit 39.3 , platelets 241 , ALT 32 , AST 65 , LDH 717 , CK 436 , with an MB fraction of 5.4 , troponin I 0.22 , total bilirubin 0.6 , direct bilirubin 0.1 , alkaline phosphatase 381 , digoxin 1.8 , calcium 9.4 , and albumin 4.1. 
Urine tox screen was negative. 
An INR was 2.5 , PTT 32.0 , and D-dimer greater than 1000. 
Arterial blood gas before BIPAP showed pH 7.41 , pCO2 63 , and pO2 66 on 2 liters of oxygen by nasal cannula. 
A portable chest x-ray showed moderate to severe pulmonary edema , bilateral hilar fullness , right greater than left , and cardiomegaly. 
Abdominal ultrasound was negative for ascites. 
A KUB showed free air , non-specific bowel gas pattern , and no obstruction. 
A urinalysis showed no protein , 2+ blood , 5-10 red blood cells , and 1+ squamous epithelial cells. 
Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm in the 80s , low voltage , with no change from previous studies. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Step Down Unit for diuresis and continued BIPAP. 
However , the patient did not tolerate BIPAP , but diuresed well , in fact , too well , to intravenous boluses of Lasix , with urine output of 7 liters negative in one day , on May , followed by ventilatory failure on May , with bicarb greater than assay. 
The patient was transferred to the CCU for worsening respiratory acidosis and not tolerating BIPAP. 
The patient was intubated at that time. 
The patient began spiking temperatures on May , as well , and was started on a regimen of levofloxacin and clindamycin on September for the question of aspiration pneumonia. 
On May , a Swan-Ganz catheter was floated with pulmonary capillary wedge pressures of 25 and the patient was started on afterload reduction with Isordil , hydralazine , and Diamox for metabolic alkalosis , which was thought to be contributing to her worsening respiratory acidosis. 
On July , ceftazidime was started for Pseudomonas , which was found in the patient's sputum. 
Over the next several days , the patient had an increased peak requirement to oxygenate satisfactorily. 
On November , vancomycin was started for coag negative Staph , which was cultured from an arterial line , and levofloxacin was discontinued. 
On May , the antibiotics were changed per recommendation of the Infectious Disease consultation to ceftazidime and Flagyl for Pseudomonas in the sputum culture , and the question of C. diff. 
Vancomycin and clindamycin were discontinued at that time. 
On February , amikacin was added for double coverage for advanced associated pneumonia with Pseudomonas. 
Subsequently , the patient slowly improved and it became easier to oxygenate her , with a decreasing fever curve. 
A chest CT scan on January , was consistent with bilateral pneumonia , as well. 
On January , the patient was taken off the vent to a trach collar , following her tracheostomy and PEG procedure , which she tolerated well on May .  
Other issues in the patient's hospitalization have included hypernatremia , thought secondary to the patient's receiving large amounts of Lasix and having no access to free water. 
This was treated with free water boluses. 
The patient also had prerenal azotemia , which was improving at the time of discharge , as well as coronary artery disease , which was not an issue , and fluid overload , secondary to cardiomyopathy , which was much improved. 
The patient's course was also complicated by acute renal failure , with creatinines rising as high as 2.6 before falling to 1.5 on the day prior to discharge. 
The patient's chest CT scan also showed significant lymphadenopathy , which was noted prior , and was thought to be secondary to sarcoid , which was recurrent CA , at this point , given that there was no biopsy data. 
Also , a transthoracic echocardiogram showed a thickened mitral valve , which may be unchanged from prior studies , and the clinical suspicion for endocarditis was fairly low. 
However , if further positive blood cultures should arise , this might require further work-up. 
The patient's course was also complicated by anemia , which has required several blood transfusions while the has been here. 
The patient has had several episodes of bleeding and oozing from various procedure sites , as well as some guaiac positive stool. 
The patient's reticulocyte was found to be 4.9% , while the hematocrit at that point , on February , was 25.7%. 
Given her reticulocyte index of 1.40 , which was inappropriately low , the patient was , therefore , started on erythropoietin , as well as iron supplementation. 
The patient was also supplemented with tube feeds , as well as Promod protein supplements , during the course of her admission. 
In terms of the patient's endocrine issues , the patient was treated with insulin , including varying doses of regular insulin , NPH , and subcutaneously , as well as insulin drips at times. 
While in the hospital , Physical Therapy began to see the patient prior to discharge and the patient was able to transfer from bed to chair with assistance. 
While in the hospital , the patient underwent tracheostomy and PEG procedure on May , 2000. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient was on Diamox 250 mg per G-tube b.i.d. , ASA 325 mg p.o. q. day , amikacin 600 mg IV q. 24 hours , natural tears two drops OU t.i.d. , ceftazidime 1000 mg IV q. 8 hours , erythropoietin 5000 units subcutaneously three times per week , ferrous sulfate 300 mg per G-tube t.i.d. , folate 1 mg per G-tube q. day , NPH insulin 105 units subcutaneously b.i.d. , regular insulin sliding scale q.a.c. and h.s. , metoprolol 50 mg per G-tube q.i.d. , nitroglycerin 0.4 mg one tablet sublingual q. five minutes x 3 p.r.n. chest pain , nystatin suspension 5 ml p.o. q.i.d. with the instructions that a swab may be used if the patient is unable to swish and swallow , omeprazole 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , potassium chloride immediate release p.o. sliding scale , Senna tablets two tabs p.o. b.i.d. , therapeutic multivitamin one tab p.o. q. day , or 5 ml per G-tube q. day , simvastatin 10 mg per G-tube q.h.s. , Atrovent nebulizer 0.5 mg inhaled q.i.d. , Lovenox 100 mg subcutaneously q. 12 hours with the instructions to check heparin factor 10A levels after the third dose on May , potassium chronic sliding scale q. day , and Flovent 220 mg inhaled b.i.d. , with four puffs b.i.d. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient was in stable condition. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was to be transferred to the Pulmonary Rehabilitation program at the Cock Dia Medical Center .  
FOLLOW-UP: Follow-up care should include monitoring the patient's anticoagulation with checking heparin factor 10A levels for her Lovenox after the third dose on May .  
The patient may also be transitioned to Coumadin once a satisfactory anticoagulation with Lovenox has been achieved. 
The patient should also follow-up with her primary care physician , Dr. Dulcie F Scovel at Dick Stookheights Community Hospital as soon as possible while at Wood or after she is discharged from there. 
Dictated By: DOUGLASS PETTINGER , M.D. EK84 Attending: BREE M. THEILING , M.D. PV1  CR448/1427 Batch: 51929 Index No. BESCHH67WM D: 10/8 T: 10/8