635696667 | PUO | 87751095 | | 758397 | 8/15/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 10/9/1994 Report Status: Unsigned Discharge Date: 10/10/1994 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: COLON CANCER STATUS POST SIGMOID COLECTOMY WITH A PRIMARY ANASTOMOSIS. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 73 year old male who immigrated from Cu Tasti Fre approximately fifteen years ago. 
He has had a several year history of constipation but no melena , hematochezia , weight loss , night sweats , chills , abdominal pain , or change in size/caliber of stool. 
His daughters were concerned about the long history of constipation and therefore scheduled a colonoscopy. 
On 10/5/94 , the patient underwent a colonoscopy at Ouf County General Hospital and a mass was noted in the transverse colon. 
A biopsy was taken and the results are not known but were reported to Dr. Bowcutt as colon cancer. 
CT of the abdomen on 6/3/94 revealed no adenopathy or evidence of metastasis but an infrarenal IVC dilatation of approximately 3 cm. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Non-Insulin dependent diabetes times ten years , coronary artery disease with a history of coronary artery bypass graft in 1990 , hypercholesterolemia , and low back pain. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for an appendectomy as a young man and a coronary artery bypass graft times three vessels in 1990. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Glyburide 2.5 mg q.d. and Lovastatin 20 mg q.d. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Blood pressure was 104/64 , temperature 97.6 , and pulse 54. GENERAL: Cooperative gentleman , well-nourished , well-developed , and in no acute distress. 
HEENT: Within normal limits. 
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
HEART: Regular rhythm and rate with no murmurs , gallops , or rubs with a midline scar from sternotomy. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , non-tender , non-distended , positive bowel sounds , liver , spleen , and kidney non-palpable , and no masses palpable. 
RECTAL: Guaiac negative with normal tone and prostate was smooth and not enlarged. 
EXTREMITIES: No cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. 
PULSES: Slightly decreased in the left posterior tibial and dorsalis pedis as compared to the right but present. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: EKG showed normal sinus rhythm with no ischemia or infarct. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted and pre-operatively , was seen by a Cardiology consultant who cleared the patient for surgery and recommended following serial CK , MB , and EKG but not a formal rule out protocol. 
The patient was taken to the Operating Room on 10/24/94 where he underwent a mid transverse to mid descending colectomy and primary anastomosis. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was stable post-operatively. 
Patient continued to progress well without any difficulty and had no evidence of ischemia or changes on the EKG. 
On post-operative day number three , the patient developed a productive cough and chest X-Ray was obtained which showed only atelectasis and small bilateral effusions but no consolidation or infiltrate. 
Patient was encouraged to cough and deep breath and the productive cough resolved without any antibiotic treatment. 
The nasogastric tube was discontinued on post-operative day number five and the patient began tolerating clear sips without any difficulty. 
By post-operative day number six , the patient was on a regular diet and had a bowel movement times six. 
Patient was discharged on post-operative day number seven without any complications. 
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Glyburide 2.5 mg q.d. , Lovastatin 20 mg q.d. , Aspirin one q.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , Axid 150 mg b.i.d. , Percocet one to two q.4-6h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
The disposition on discharge is no heavy lifting times six weeks and the patient is to follow-up with Dr. Bowcutt in seven to eight days for staple removal from his wound. 
Pathology was adenocarcinoma of the colon 4 cm in size , clear margins , and ten out of ten nodes were negative. 
It was Duke's class B2. Patient is discharged home in stable condition. 
Dictated By: MA G. YEAGLEY , M.D. ZX90 Attending: SIU F. BOWCUTT , M.D. KY4 EF281/9798 Batch: 4200 Index No. FMND5310G1 D: 8/2/94 T: 9/8/94