228929386 | PUO | 26756252 | | 926003 | 4/23/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/1/1993 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 11/18/1993 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. ASTHMA EXACERBATION SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 2. UPPER RESPIRATORY INFECTION 3. ATYPICAL CHEST PAIN HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 61 year old female with the history of asthma , admitted with increasing shortness of breath and chest congestion. 
She has a history of asthma and has never been intubated. 
She has been treated with steroid tapers in the past and hospitalized two times before , most recently in 5 of September Her usual asthma exacerbant is an upper respiratory infection. 
She smoked until 5 days ago. 
She complained of 3-4 days of chest congestion and runny nose. 
She denies any productive cough , fever , sinus tenderness or GI symptoms. 
She called her KTDUOO physician and was put on Prednisone for the past two days. 
She felt that her wheezing was increasing and she came to the Emergency Ward. 
Her peak flow was 100. 
She was treated with three nebulizers and her peak flow increased to 130. 
Her oxygen saturations is 95% on room air and no blood test was done. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: She has the history of chest burning when she doesn't take her medications or walks too much; has had labile T-waves in the past with catheterization in 1989 , revealed clean coronary arteries. 
There is no change with food and there is no acid taste associated with this burning pain. 
She has the history of hypertension; degenerative joint disease; anxiety; right lower quadrant pain , ultrasound in 4 of February , revealed fatty liver , HIDA was negative; status post hysterectomy. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: At the time of admission , the patient was on Atrovent inhaler , Azmacort inhaler , aspirin one po q d , Verapamil SR 240 mg po q am with 180 mg po q pm , Colace 100 mg po b.i.d. , Isordil 40 mg po t.i.d. , Clinoril prn , Valium 5 mg po q.i.d. prn , Prednisone x 2 days. 
ALLERGIES: NKDA. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives alone in a second floor apartment. 
She has three children and several grandchildren. 
She is a retired nurse aid. 
She denies any history of alcohol use. 
She smoked 1/2 pack per day until 5 days ago. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission showed an obese black female in no acute distress , able to speak without difficulty. 
The blood pressure was 184/100 , pulse 80 , respiratory rate 22 and temperature 97.8 with 96% saturations on 2 liters. 
The oropharynx was clear with no erythema or exudate. 
The pupils equal , round and reactive to light and accommodation; extraocular movements were intact. 
The neck was supple with no lymphadenopathy , jugular venous distention or carotid bruits. 
The cardiac was regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs , gallops or rubs. 
The lungs showed prolonged expiratory phase with diminished air movement and diffuse wheezing. 
The abdomen was soft , non tender , normal bowel sounds. 
She did have mild right upper quadrant tenderness but no liver edge was palpable; Murphy's significant was negative. 
The extremities showed trace edema bilaterally. 
The neurological examination was non focal. 
LABORATORY DATA: On admission was remarkable for normal SMA , normal CBC. 
The chest x-ray revealed no infiltrate. 
The EKG was normal sinus rhythm with some mild T-wave flattening. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted with asthma exacerbation. 
She was treated with bronchodilator nebulizers around the clock and initially IV steroids. 
On the following day , she had mildly decreased wheezing. 
Her peak flow had increased to 200. 
She was changed to oral steroids. 
She continued to improve slowly with slow improvement in her peak flow. 
Her steroid taper was begun early given the past history of paranoia with steroids. 
She felt that the Bactrim gave her cramping and therefore this was discontinued as it was felt highly unlikely that she had a bacterial infection and much more likely that she had a viral upper respiratory infection disposing her to her asthma exacerbation. 
She slowly continued to improve and was discharged to home to complete a steroid taper. 
She had no episodes of chest pain or other difficulties while in the hospital. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient was on Atrovent two puffs q.i.d. , enteric coated aspirin one po q d , Verapamil SR 240 mg po q am with 180 mg po q pm , Azmacort inhaler two puffs b.i.d. , Isordil 40 mg t.i.d. , Clinoril 150 mg po b.i.d. , Alupent inhaler two puffs po q 4 hours , Prednisone 40 mg po q d x 3 days then 20 mg q d x 3 days then 10 mg po q d x 3 days then 5 mg po q d x 3 days then discontinue , Lactulose 30 cc po t.i.d. prn. 
FOLLOW UP CARE: The patient is to follow up with Dr. Romig in KTDUOO in 2-3 weeks. 
Dictated By: MARYJO D. LURA , M.D. JL78 Attending: PEGGY K. ROMIG , M.D. AB14 EQ861/4349 Batch: 9161 Index No. PHHJWM67XQ D: 4/8/93 T: 11/9/93