695831179 | PUO | 85228280 | | 0130166 | 10/27/2005 12:00:00 AM | ANAPHYLAXIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/2/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 6/10/2005 ATTENDING: TIBOLLA , MADISON M.D. ADMISSION DIAGNOSES: Anaphylaxis. 
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSES: 1. Congestive heart failure. 
2. Hypertension. 
3. Hypothyroidism. 
4. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. 
5. Polymyalgia rheumatica. 
6. Diabetic retinopathy. 
7. Urinary tract infection. 
8. Adrenal insufficiency. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 86-year-old female with a history of polymyalgia rheumatica for which she takes steroids and has developed adrenal insufficiency. 
She presented to the emergency room with shortness of breath , wheezing , and a maculopapular rash after receiving the pneumovax shot. 
She received this shot upon discharge from admission to the Ouf County General Hospital for syncope and dehydration. 
The treatment there was IV fluids in short course and increase in her steroids. 
In the emergency room , she was treated with steroids , Benadryl , and Pepcid. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As above. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Immunology: The patient was found to have anaphylactic reaction to the Pneumovax shot that she received. 
Her symptoms resolved by hospital day #1 after receiving IV Benadryl around the clock , Pepcid , and an increased dose in her Hydrocort to 100 mg IV q.6h. 
The steroids were started on a taper and on the night of the first admission , the patient was noted to have increased shortness of breath and oxygen requirements. 
She was treated with oxygen and increased steroids again for presumed reexacerbation of anaphylaxis. 
2. Pulmonary: The episode of wheezing that she had on the first day of admission could also be partly explained by fluid overload. 
By hospital day #2 , she had developed crackles and jugular venous distention. 
She has a history of diastolic heart dysfunction , and diuresis was initiated. 
Despite receiving 3 doses of IV Lasix , she had an episode of flash pulmonary edema on the second night of hospitalization. 
A chest x-ray was obtained at that time which was consistent with pulmonary edema. 
She was stabilized with additional Lasix and 100% nonrebreather mask , and nitroglycerin. 
Her blood pressure was 200 systolic at that time. 
The plan for continued diuresis was interrupted on hospital day #3 when she became hypotensive and febrile with a UA consistent with infection. 
She was started on Levo for presumed urosepsis. 
On hospital day #4 , diuresis was resumed as her blood pressure stabilized around 110 , and she still had a 5-6L oxygen requirement. 
The patient reports her dry weight is 140 to 143 lbs. 
Her primary care doctor suspects it more like 149 lbs. 
She is currently receiving diuresis to wean oxygen requirement and is down to 1 L per nasal cannula. 
Her goal fluid status is to negative 1 L per day , and she continues to receive Lasix IV to meet that goal. 
She was also restarted on p.o. Lasix 30 mg p.o. daily. 
There was some concern about aspiration by the nursing staff. 
She immediately had trouble with swallowing liquids and Speech and Swallow was consulted. 
The patient failed the bedside swallow exam and so a video swallow was obtained , which actually showed no evidence of aspiration , and so she was continued on a regular diet. 
By the time of discharge she did not require any oxygen. 
She would intermittently desat to the high 80s , which would quickly resolve with deep breathing or chest PT. 3. Endocrinology. 
The patient has a history of PMR and adrenal insufficiency , on 30 mg of Hydrocort daily at home. 
On the May , 2005 , in the setting of urosepsis she was placed back on stress dose steroids which was then tapered back to her home dose throughout the rest of her hospitalization. 
She has a history of diabetes type 2 requiring insulin inhouse or oral agents. 
Oral agents were held and insulin was given for glucose control , NPH 30 units in the morning and 10 units in the evening seemed to control the a.m. and p.m. sugars pretty well. 
Regular insulin was added 6 units in the morning with breakfast with the morning NPH for 1 p.m. blood sugar control , as this was the highest blood sugar daily. 
Obviously , this needs to be monitored and adjusted as needed as well the medicine staff is going to be following her as to whether she should resume the oral agents. 
She does on occasion drop her blood sugar to 50 or 60 , which is usually asymptomatic. 
4. Renal: Her baseline creatinine was 1.0. 
Both her BUN and creatinine were elevated with diuresis. 
Her creatinine needs to be monitored closely and medications need to renally dosed. 
5. Infectious Disease: Her urine was positive for greater than 100 , 000 group B hemolytic Streptococci and she was initially started with Levaquin. 
It was switched to penicillin on January , 2005 , after the gram-positive organism was discovered and she was switched back to Levaquin after the sensitivities came back , and it was sensitive to Levaquin. 
The Levaquin is ideal because her coughing could also represent bronchitis. 
She has complained of a cough since weeks before admission , which is now resolving. 
6. Disposition: The patient does not feel that she can care for  herself at home and screening was placed to Porangecatheox Medical Center Of , and that was accepted for the acute care center for Saturday , March , 2005. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient is just to follow up with primary care physician. 
She should also follow up with Dr. Lucus from Pulmonary at the Pagham University Of An appointment will be made for her. 
She should return to the emergency room if she experiences chest pain , further shortness of breath , severe sweating , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , or other concerns. 
LABORATORY DATA: On discharge , glucose 116 , BUN 30 , creatinine 1.3 , sodium 139 , potassium 3.4; please make a note that her potassium requires repletion and should be monitored; chloride 93 , CO2 33 , CK 34 , calcium 8.7 , magnesium 1.8 , troponin less than assay. 
White blood cell count is 7.04 , hemoglobin 10.6 , hematocrit 32.8 , and platelet 274 , 000. 
Urinalysis , greater than 100 , 000 with 4+ beta-hemolytic Streptococcus group B , sensitive to penicillin and Cipro; with Cipro being a better choice , i.e. , levofloxacin because of her bronchitis. 
CONDITION UPON DISCHARGE: Stable. 
See radiologic data. 
Swallowing study on July , 2005 , showed normal video swallow. 
Portable chest x-ray on October , 2005 , showed new bilateral perihilar opacification consistent with pulmonary edema. 
Minimal left-sided effusion is present and there are no pneumothoraces. 
The heart is normal in size. 
MEDICATIONS UPON DISCHARGE: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. headache; aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily; albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg q.4h. 
p.r.n. shortness of breath or wheezing , of note , this is not the patient's usual medication , she does not have a history of asthma or COPD; Dulcolax 5 mg p.o. daily; citrate of magnesia 150 mL p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. constipation; Benadryl 25 mg q.8h. 
p.r.n. wheezing or itching; Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily; Robitussin 10 mL p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. cough; hydrocortisone 30 mg p.o. daily; insulin NPH 30 units subcutaneously q.a.m.; insulin NPH Humulin 10 units subcutaneously q.p.m. , Insulin Regular Humulin 6 units subcutaneously daily with breakfast; acidophilus 4 tablets p.o. t.i.d.; lactulose 30 mL p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation; Synthroid 88 mcg p.o. daily; Senna tablet 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d.; multivitamin 1 p.o. daily; Norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily , hold if systolic blood pressure less than 120; Compazine 5 mg to 10 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. nausea; Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneously daily; potassium 20 mEq daily , please note the potassium should be monitored and potassium repleted as necessary; levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. q.24h. 
12 more total doses; Nexium 40 mg p.o. daily; DuoNeb 3/0.5 mg nebulizers q.6h. 
p.r.n. , please note that this is not a home medication; Lumigan OU q.d.; NovoLog sliding scale subcutaneously a.c. and h.s.; Maalox p.r.n. 
ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to sulfa , which causes a rash; azathioprine , which causes fever; sertraline , which causes nausea; Reglan , which causes angioedema; also the pneumococcal vaccine , which causes anaphylaxis. 
eScription document: 5-2932489 SSSten Tel Dictated By: RUKA , BERNA Attending: TIBOLLA , MADISON Dictation ID 2229509 D: 4/13/05 T: 4/13/05