957920206 | PUO | 19483662 | | 9324690 | 10/21/2005 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/19/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 7/3/2005 ATTENDING: STAUTZ , MATHEW MD INTERIM PHYSICIAN: Malinda Polo , MD ATTENDING PHYSICIAN: Fernande Prewer , MD SERVICE: Cardiology Adue Y The condition responsible for causing this admission is congestive heart failure exacerbation. 
Other diagnoses include left bundle branch block , paresthesias in the fingers , benign prostatic hypertrophy , prostatic adenocarcinoma , Gleason's score 2/4 , C5-C6 and C6-C7 disk disease , status post left nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma , hyperplastic polyps in 1993 and also status post AICD and dual chamber pacer. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 73-year-old male well known to the CHF Service with long-standing New York Heart Association class 3B idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy presenting with shortness of breath and increasing orthopnea over the last night prior to admission from 8 to 9 p.m. 
The patient first went to Forestblan Conwake Hospital ER then left AMA without further treatment after waiting four hours. 
He reports increasing cough with white sputum since 5/8 , dyspnea on exertion and orthopnea especially over the last three days. 
Also there is a questionable increase in abdominal distention. 
The patient had been admitted five times in the last six months with the last admission also for worsening dyspnea on exertion , orthopnea and cough in which he notably had a TEE-guided cardioversion and diuresis. 
He was discharged on creatinine of 1.7. 
The patient freely admits that he has had dietary indiscretion over the last two months , claiming that he has been "eating like a horse" with meat and heavy sauces on pasta. 
The patient denies chest pain , fevers , sick contacts , chills , weight gain or nausea. 
ALLERGIES: The patient has allergies to erythromycin and penicillin , which causes a rash. 
He also describes an allergy to contrast. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was alert and oriented and in no acute distress with blood pressure of 82/62 , heart rate of 80 beats per minute. 
His HEENT exam was unremarkable. 
Carotid upstrokes were brisk without bruits. 
There were no thyromegaly and his chest exam was clear to auscultation and percussion. 
Cardiac exam did demonstrate JVP of about 18 cm and also regular rate and rhythm with an S1 , S2 as well as an S3 and 1/6 holosystolic murmur at the apex. 
The abdominal exam was notable for an enlarged abdomen , but nondistended and without pulsatile palpable liver edge. 
There was no tenderness to palpation. 
The extremities were warm and with 1+ distal pulses and only trace edema. 
LABORATORY DATA: On admission were notable for BUN of 45 , creatinine of 1.6 , K of 4.3 and sodium of 136. 
The INR was 1.3. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: 1. Cardiovascular. 
The patient was in volume overload and his ARB and Aldactone were held. 
Aggressive diuresis was undertaken for most of this stay including an IV Lasix drip , which was later weaned to a torsemide IV b.i.d. which was later changed to p.o. b.i.d. for a questionable reaction to the IV formation in the form of itchiness. 
He was also put on Zaroxolyn throughout the stay and he was started on dopamine drip , which was later discontinued on 7/20/05 for long runs of NSVT that he had possibly secondary to sensitivity to the dopamine. 
However , dobutamine was started on 2/11/05 and this dosage was increased gradually over 8/1/05 to 1/19/05 to rate about 3 mcg/kg and the patient tolerated this dosage fairly well. 
In addition , electrolytes were repleted throughout the stay and the patient underwent a workup for an LVAD placement including PFTs , peripheral and carotid Dopplers and an abdominal ultrasound. 
He was shown to have significant aortic vascular disease which was felt to represent a contra-indication for LVAD. 
Discussion ongoing with the patient during his stay revealed that he would prefer not to have the LVAD even if he were eligible. 
He understood that he was not likely to live long with the severity of his heart failure. 
The decision was later made to send the patient home with a Hickman catheter placed on 11/6/05 , so that he could receive home dobutamine. 
In terms of ischemia , the first set of enzymes were flat and ischemia was judged not to be an active issue. 
There were no changes on EKG. 
In terms of rhythm , the patient does have history of prior AFib , however , he has remained in normal sinus rhythm , status post cardioversion. 
He has had asymptomatic runs of NSVT on the dopamine and less so on the dobutamine as mentioned above. 
Currently he was paced with an AICD. 
We kept the patient on amiodarone and digoxin as well as on tele. 
2. Renal: The patient has a history of chronic renal insufficiency and is status post left nephrectomy. 
We monitored the patient's BUN and creatinine while diuresing and although , the patient did have an increased BUN to about 70 , diuretic treatment was continued as a primary goal. 
3. Endo. 
The patient has diabetes and we held oral glycemics , putting him on regular insulin sliding scale and NPH doses. 
Also the patient had low TSH. 
This is probably due to subclinical hypothyroidism or sick euthyroid. 
4. Heme. 
The patient is on Coumadin as an outpatient and we titrated his INR to a goal of 2-3. 
The patient did have some nosebleeds on 10/21 and his Coumadin was temporarily held , but restarted again for this goal of 2-3 later. 
The INR goal was decreased less than 1.5 where the placement of Hickman catheter with the plan to restart the Coumadin after placement. 
5. Prostate. 
The patient does have a history of prostate adenocarcinoma , Gleason 2/5 on biopsy in 2004. 
This has been discussed with the patient by his urologist and the patient has refused surgery now with an increased PSA , however , we did consult a Urology while the patient was here and it was deemed that his prostate should not be a major prognostic consideration given the degree of his heart failure. 
Physical exam at discharge , in general the patient was comfortable and in no apparent distress , sitting up and eating his food comfortably as far as the HEENT and neck exam his JVP was about 10 cm. 
Cardiovascular exam showed occasional PVCs and a loud P2 and S3. 
In general unchanged from admission. 
Respiratorywise his lungs were clear to auscultation and breath sounds were equal bilaterally. 
His abdomen was somewhat decreased in size from admission , soft and non-tensed. 
Extremities were warm without edema. 
Pulses were 1+ radial and dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally as with admission he did have some wasted lower extremities. 
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to home with VNA Services. 
The plan is to follow his INR on Coumadin and to continue to monitor his heart for NSVT while on dobutamine. 
Also consider an ARB or Aldactone. 
The patient has stable kidney function with decreasing creatinine. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily. 
2. Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.i.d. 3. IV dobutamine 3 mcg/kg/minute and D5 water continue with IV. 4. Folate 1 mg p.o. daily. 
5. Zaroxolyn 2.5 mg p.o. q.a.m. 6. Multivitamin one tablet p.o. daily. 
7. KCl slow release 40 mEq p.o. t.i.d. 8. Torsemide 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. 9. Glipizide 10 mg p.o. daily. 
10. 
Coumadin 3 mg p.o. q.p.m. 
eScription document: 8-1646113 CS Dictated By: POLO , MALINDA Attending: FERNANDE RANDY PREWER , M.D. ND75 Dictation ID 0247306 D: 11/6/05 T: 10/10/05