045613251 | PUO | 02392257 | | 615734 | 7/9/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/4/1994 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 3/5/1994 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1. PULMONARY EMBOLUS 2. DILATED CARDIOMYOPATHY HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 65 year old woman with dilated cardiomyopathy secondary to Adriamycin , status post recent admission for increased shortness of breath and left pleural effusion. 
He returns now with increased cough productive of white phlegm and progressive dyspnea on exertion. 
The patient has a history of breast carcinoma in 1989 , treated with left lumpectomy x 2 and XRT , accompanied by chemotherapy completed in early 1990. 
The patient then presented in July of 1992 with progressive dyspnea on exertion , found to have an ejection fraction of 17%. 
She was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy felt secondary to Adriamycin toxicity. 
She was then treated with Digoxin , Lasix , Captopril and Coumadin with good result. 
She had subsequent development of SVT with a rapid ventricular rate of approximately 180. 
The patient eventually underwent EPEP studies with therapeutic ablation. 
Subsequently she had done quite well until February of 1994 when she presented with mild cough productive of white phlegm and increasing symptoms of right and left-sided heart failure. 
She was treated with increased Lasix and Digoxin and an empiric course of amoxicillin with little change in her symptoms. 
She was then admitted on 8/7 after she was found to have a large left-sided pleural effusion. 
The patient underwent ultrasound guided thoracentesis complicated by a pneumothorax requiring chest tube placement. 
Evaluation of the pleural fluid revealed a transudative effusion with all cultures and cytology remaining negative. 
The patient was treated with Ancef for approximately 7 days while the chest tube was in place and then discharged on 6/20/94. 
Since that time the patient has had no improvement in her symptoms but rather notes increasing cough which remains productive of white sputum with occasional "specks of red" and progression of her dyspnea on exertion. 
She is now unable to go greater than six steps of stair without significant dyspnea. 
This is a significant change from approximately one month ago where she was able to go two flights without extreme difficulty. 
She has stable 3 + pillow orthopnea and pedal edema. 
Her weight has increased only slightly recently. 
She denies any fever , chills , sweats , chest discomfort or pleuritic chest pain. 
She does not anorexia and malaise without myalgias or arthralgias. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Dilated cardiomyopathy as above. 
2. Breast carcinoma as above. 
3. Hypothyroid 4. Depression ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
Habits , distant tobacco use , none since 1967 , no ETOH. 
MEDICATIONS: Digoxin 0.25 mg q day , Lasix 80 mg q day , Capoten 50 mg t.i.d. , aspirin one per day , Synthroid 2 gr. per day , Tamoxifen 10 mg b.i.d. , Elavil 75 mg q day , K-Dur 1 q day. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her boyfriend , she is widowed without children. 
She is a semi-retired Accounts Manager. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 100.6 , blood pressure 116/65 , heart rate is 100 , respiratory rate 18. 02 saturation 90% on room air. 
The patient is alert , responsive , febrile and in no acute distress. 
Her conjunctiva are clear , extraocular movements intact , her oropharynx is clear. 
She has no lymphadenopathy. 
Jugular venous pressure is approximately 8 cm at 30 degrees. 
Lung examination is remarkable for a few rales at the left base , decreased breath sounds at the right base with dullness to percussion. 
Cardiac examination , regular rate and rhythm with normal SI , SII , positive SIII. 
Abdomen is soft and non-tender , slightly distended. 
She has pitting edema almost to the knees bilaterally. 
Neurological examination is non focal. 
LABORATORY DATA: SMA-7 is notable for a potassium of 5.4 and creatinine of 1.2 with a BUN of 20. CBC demonstrated a white count of 14 , hematocrit of 42.9 , platelets 289 , Digoxin level was 1.2. 
Chest x-ray showed a left pleural effusion which is unchanged , a new right pleural effusion +- consolidation. 
EKG showed sinus rhythm at 98 , left axis deviation , normal intervals , low voltage with poor R wave progression , no significant change compared with 7/24/94. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted with a picture of chronic productive cough , progressive dyspnea with low grade fevers and increased white blood cell count , in addition to new opacity on chest x-ray. 
This clinical picture was felt to be mostly from a progressive infectious process superimposed on underlying congestive heart failure versus post-obstructive infection versus atelectasis with an endobronchial lesion. 
The patient was started on empiric course of antibiotics including cefotaxime and clarithromycin. 
She was seen in consultation by the Pulmonary Service which felt that a therapeutic trial of aggressive diuresis was warranted prior to any more aggressive intervention such as bronchoscopy or repeat thoracentesis. 
The patient was thus treated with aggressive IV diuresis with excellent symptomatic result. 
As her symptoms and chest x-ray cleared , it was felt that a chest CT would be valuable in evaluating her left lower lobe for possible endobronchial lesion leading to volume loss. 
She thus underwent a chest CT on 2/6/94 with demonstration of a large peripheral , red , right lower lobe opacity , highly suggestive of a right lower lobe pulmonary infarction. 
No endobronchial lesions or lymphadenopathy were noted. 
Given the patient's history of dilated cardiomyopathy , off anticoagulation , an extensive discussion of the chest CT findings with the Chest Radiologist and Pulmonary Consult Team , it was felt that the patient should be treated empirically for a pulmonary embolus. 
She was thus started on IV Heparin with achievement of therapeutic PTT prior to switching to oral Coumadin without complications. 
In addition the patient underwent lower extremity non-invasives which were negative for deep venous thrombosis as well as a cardiac echocardiogram which showed no evidence of RV strain or right ventricular thrombus. 
Of note , this echocardiogram again demonstrated moderately large left ventricle with severely depressed systolic function and an estimated ejection fraction of 15-20%. 
Though the possibility that the wedge shaped opacification seen on CT was due to pneumonia rather than infarction , it was felt that given the patient's low ejection fraction she would need to be anticoagulated on this basis alone , and thus pulmonary angiogram or VQ scan would not be likely to alter management. 
The patient was discharged to home. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home. 
MEDICATIONS: Elavil 75 mg p.o. q h.s.; Captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.; Biaxin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Digoxin 0.125 mg alternating with 0.25 mg q day; Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Tamoxifen 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Thyroid 2 grains p.o. q day; Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q day; K-Dur 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Ambien 10 mg p.o. q h.s. 
Followup with Dr. Schwerd at the Na Memorial Hospital Dictated By: ALVERTA A. BURVINE , M.D. KJ83 Attending: FRANCISCA A. URBANIAK , M.D. MS1 ER907/4997 Batch: 8853 Index No. DFWY4DD66 D: 3/10/94 T: 8/10/94