855931883 | PUO | 06334183 | | 8949472 | 8/14/2002 12:00:00 AM | CELLULITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/14/2002 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/6/2002 SERVICE: General Medical Service San Afield Health Care .  
PRINCIPAL PROBLEM: Vascular insufficiency. 
OTHER DIAGNOSES: Diabetes mellitus , known vascular disease , incontinence , recurrent UTIs , hypertension. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 89-year-old woman with insulin dependent diabetes , coronary artery disease , hypertension , peripheral vascular disease , and ejection fraction of 28% who had a left fem-peroneal bypass in the past presented with on-going left toe pain admitted for left toe vascular insufficiency and cellulitis refractory to treatment for two months. 
The patient reported having her podiatrist clip her nails about two months ago which is when her pain in her foot started. 
She denies any fever , chills , cough , shortness of breath , nausea , or vomiting. 
At home she was able to ambulate , but had significant pain localizing to her left foot and toe. 
She was recently admitted here on July for the same complaint treated with IV levofloxacin and clindamycin for five days and then went home on ten days of dicloxacillin , then Keflex. 
She comes back on the April with the same pain and infection in her left foot. 
On admission she was afebrile with mild tachycardia and stable blood pressure. 
Exam was notable for a soft systolic ejection murmur at the base , non-palpable pulses in her left lower extremity. 
Left foot was cool. 
There was swelling over the dorsum of her left foot to the ankle. 
There was a superficial ulcer along the medial aspect of the nail bed without purulence. 
She had normal white blood cell count and negative blood cultures taken here. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Status post CVA , status post carotid endarterectomy , status post fem-peroneal bypass in 1997 , diabetes , hypertension , inflammatory bowel disease , congestive heart failure with an EF of 28 to 30% , depression , recurrent UTIs , coronary artery disease , status post MI , non-Q wave MI , cataracts , stress incontinence. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Include lactulose , Zocor , Metamucil , Paxil , Cozaar , Neurontin , Metformin , Lantus. 
ALLERGIES: Allergies to sulfa , Mavik , and verapamil. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives with her family. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As per the history of the present illness. 
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 98.3 , heart rate 100 , blood pressure 184/100 , breathing 20 and satting 97% on room air. 
GENERAL: No acute distress , obese. 
HEENT: Clear. 
No adenopathy. 
Oropharynx clear. 
NECK: Jugular venous distention less than eight centimeters. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and rhythm. 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
PULMONARY: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , non-tender , non-distended. 
No organomegaly. 
Obese. 
EXTREMITIES: Left foot swollen to the ankle over the dorsum , erythema. 
Superficial ulceration along the lateral first toenail bed without purulence. 
Left foot was cool. 
Non-palpable pulses in lower extremity. 
NEUROLOGIC: She was intact. 
Able to ambulate with some difficulty and pain. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for recurrent vascular insufficiency with superimposed cellulitis likely due to her poor lower extremity perfusion from her peripheral vascular disease. 
An MRI was obtained which was concerning for early osteomyelitis and there was concern that her bypass graft in her left leg was not patent. 
She had angiography of the left leg vessels and proceeded to get stenting of the left common iliac and external iliac vessels without complication on May .  
Also during her hospitalization she had elevated LFTs which were attributed to a three gram dose of Unasyn that she received in the Emergency Room. 
The Unasyn was changed to IV clindamycin and levo , and a right upper quadrant ultrasound showed a calcified gallbladder wall and no obstruction , and her LFTs then began to normalize. 
Her cardiac status remained stable throughout her admission and she is to be treated with Plavix 75 mg for 30 days after the stenting of her iliac vessels. 
A PICC line was placed on the day of discharge for on-going IV antibiotics PLAN: The plan is as follows: 1. Plavix times 30 days , 75 milligrams a day. 
2. IV clindamycin and p.o. levofloxacin for another ten days , and then switch to p.o. Flagyl and levofloxacin for an additional four weeks. 
3. She is to follow-up with her PCP , Dr. Desirae Marcott , and Vascular Surgery Clinic as planned. 
4. Please continue checking fingerstick blood sugars q.a.c. and h.s. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Include the following: aspirin , bacitracin , Dulcolax , clindamycin 600 mg IV q. eight hours for another ten days , Colace enema or laxative choice per day for constipation , heparin 5000 units subcu b.i.d. , regular insulin sliding scale , lactulose 30 milliliters p.o. b.i.d. hold for loose stool , Reglan ten milligrams p.o. q. six for nausea or vomiting , oxycodone five to ten milligrams p.o. q. four to six for breakthrough pain , Fleets Phospho-Soda 45 liters p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for constipation , Senna tablets two tabs p.o. b.i.d. , Neurontin 100 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , Metformin 500 milligrams p.o. b.i.d. , OxyContin ten milligrams p.o. q. 12 hours , Cozaar 50 milligrams p.o. q.d. hold for a systolic blood pressure less than 95 , levofloxacin 250 milligrams p.o. q.d. for the next ten days and then an additional four weeks after that as described above , Plavix 75 milligrams p.o. q.d. times 30 days , and Adalat ( nifedipine extended release ) 60 milligrams p.o. q.d. hold for systolic blood pressure less than 95 , Lantus 14 units subcu q.a.m. 
ADDITIONAL PLAN: The patient should have her LFT's rechecked in the next week to ensure that they are normalizing. 
Dictated By: PAOLA ODEA , VO54 Attending: JACKSON PART , M.D. QT06  HB709/506451 Batch: 63927 Index No. T0ND7G2KGG D: 10/10/02 T: 10/10/02 CC: 1. DESIRAE R. MARCOTT , M.D. AB14