354507117 | PUO | 63517168 | | 0884792 | 8/1/2006 12:00:00 AM | HAND CELLULITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/22/2006 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 3/6/2006 ATTENDING: PRAZAK , ELINORE HYMAN MD PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Cellulitis. 
LIST OF PROBLEMS/DIAGNOSES: 1. Inflammatory breast cancer. 
2. Type II diabetes. 
3. Hypertension. 
4. Hypercholesterolemia. 5. CHF with preserved systolic function. 
6. Obstructive sleep apnea. 
7. Asthma. 
8. Spinal stenosis with herniated discs. 
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Holecek is a 72-year-old female with newly diagnosed ductal carcinoma and inflammatory breast cancer of the left breast with a mass in the lung that is suggestive of likely stage IV disease who has also multiple other medical problem including diabetes , who presents with a two-day history of right and left finger warmth , tenderness and swelling. 
The patient is undergoing chemotherapy with Adriamycin and cytoxan and is status post cycle 2 on 9/6/06 and began to feel like she was recovering from her chemotherapy approximately three days prior to admission. 
A spinal MRI obtained on Tuesday to evaluate her spinal stenosis was uneventful but later on that day the patient developed redness on the dorsum of her right hand in the area in which her IV was placed per the MRI. 
The following morning the patient had a pustular lesion on the fourth digit of her right hand distal to the dorsal redness and went to LMC Urgent Care where she received one dose of ceftriaxone and was given a p.o. script for Augmentin. 
She was sent home but at home she developed expulsive diarrhea and vomiting on that evening , was not able to tolerate her oral antibiotics. 
The next day she noticed a similar lesion on the fourth digit of her left hand looking much like that on the right hand. 
She returned to the LMC urgent care for one more dose of ceftriaxone and was then admitted to the hospital for IV antibiotics. 
The patient denies any cat bites , travel , soil or water contract. 
She has no bruises , scrapes or previous lesions. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As detailed above. 
MEDICINES: 1. Lantus 40 units nightly. 
2. Aspirin 81 mg daily. 
3. Lipitor 40 mg daily. 
4. Zestril 2.5 mg daily. 
5. Cardizem ER 240 mg daily. 
6. Lasix 20 mg daily. 
7. Procrit 40000 units weekly. 
8. Pamidronate. 
9. Dexamethasone with chemotherapy. 
10. 
AC chemo. 
11. 
Neulasta. 
12. Ativan p.r.n. 13. 
Multivitamin. 
14. 
Iron sulfate. 
15. 
Isosorbide dinitrate 10 mg t.i.d. 11. 
Allegra 60 , 000 mg b.i.d. 
ALLERGIES: 1. Percodan. 
2. Halothane causing fevers. 
3. Atenolol causing sweating. 
4. Sulfa causes a rash. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone in Tolestarocheron Wa She has a very sad social history in which her husband is a Li Rich Ni war veteran and came back to the Trawa St. , North Ra Sta and was service connected with the inalp preswo hospital psychiatric disturbances following his tour of duty. 
She has had three sons , two twins who died earlier in life of some unspecified heart illness and a third son who died at the age of 21 after a long hospital stay with clear cell sarcoma of bone. 
She lives alone in a second floor walkup in Alabama near Te Et Hou She has a distant history of tobacco 50 years ago. 
She rarely drinks alcohol. 
Her friend and healthcare proxy is Robena Chuppa , and the phone # 342-749-8201. 
Mother had colon cancer. 
Three aunts and maternal grandmother also had colon cancer. 
Her son had a clear cell sarcoma of bone. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Positive for nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , lightheadedness and dizziness associated with her chemo but she denies fevers , chills , sweats in the past 72 to 96 hours prior to admission. 
She did have chest pain on 3/28/06 two days after her chemo but none since and in the time leading up to her hospitalization. 
ADMISISON PHYSICAL EXAM: Temperature was 98.9 , pulse 98 , blood pressure 132/55 , respiratory rate 16 , 95% on room air. 
The patient's physical exam was significant for alopecia and obesity. 
She was in no acute distress , alert and oriented. 
Her pupils were equal , round and reactive. 
Conjunctivae were pink. 
She was anicteric and her oropharynx was clear. 
JVP was hard to assess due to neck fullness and she wears hearing aids. 
The lungs were clear to auscultation except for decreased breath sounds with crackles at the left base. 
Cardiovascular exam was regular rate and rhythm with a normal S1 , S2 and no murmur , rubs or gallops. 
Abdomen was soft and benign. 
Extremities had trace to 1+ edema. 
The patient had an approximately 4 x 2 cm area of redness but no swelling , positive warmth and positive tenderness on the dorsal surface of her right hand. 
She had a pustular lesion on her left fourth digit and right third digit that had been I&amp;D in LMC Urgent Care. 
LABORATORY DATA: Labs are significant for creatinine of 1 , white blood cell count of 4.33 , hematocrit of 25.5 and platelets of 108. 
EKG showed a normal sinus rhythm with a leftward axis and first degree AV block. 
Chest x-ray was unremarkable. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: This is a 72-year-old woman with stage III or stage IV breast cancer who now presents with paronychia and possible cellulitis of her right and left hands. 
Infectious Disease: The patient was initially started on IV vancomycin given the proximity of her recent chemotherapy. 
Her finger lesions and dorsal right hand lesions began to heal within two days of her admission. 
She underwent incision and drainage of her left hand's pustular lesion with improved speed of healing and decreased pain. 
After 48 hours in the hospital the patient's vancomycin was switched to Keflex at which time the patient developed a area of redness on her left forearm that measured approximately 6 cm x 4 cm in area. 
The lesion was notable for an erythematous base with punctuate red lesions that did not appear to be blanching. 
At the same time , she developed a very similar lesion on her right index finger between her MCP and PIP. 
The patient was switched back to IV vancomycin and the Infectious Disease consultants were called to assist with the management of the patient's evolving lesions. 
A TTE was obtained that showed no vegetations and serial blood cultures showed no bacteremia. 
The Infectious Disease consultants suggested that the patient had paronychia in her digits with transfer of bacterial infestation due to skin breakdown in the area around her nails on her hands. 
The concern for septic emboli for which the patient was initially treated became less likely in the setting of the new lesions that were not in distribution that has been consistent with septic emboli. 
48 hours later the patient was again switched from vancomycin to Keflex and within 12 hours developed new maculopapular rash on her right neck and furuncles on her left and right outer labia that were exquisitely painful. 
The patient was given one more dose of IV vancomycin and then resumed on Keflex. 
Dermatologists were consulted to help determine whether the patient was suffering from shingles and they deemed that she was not and that her new rash was likely eczematous in nature and topical steroid creams were prescribed. 
The new rash on the right neck quickly resolved and the furuncles on her labia were symptomatically managed with sitz bath three times daily in addition to her oral cephalosporin antibiotic. 
Throughout the course of evolving dermatologic findings that the patient experienced and the pain associated with them the patient had continued to have absolutely no systemic complications associated with these lesions. 
In particular , she did not have fever at all during the course of her hospitalization , she did not have chills or sweats , she developed no new heart murmurs , and her blood cultures remained negative throughout the course. 
The patient was started on IV acyclovir when her new rash developed and on the day of discharge was switched over to Valtrex 1000 mg t.i.d. for management of presumed HSV infection though cultures remained pending at the time of discharge. 
The patient will be discharged on Keflex and Valtrex to complete a course of ten days on each. 
Endocrine: The patient has a history of type II diabetes , was placed on a weight based insulin regimen with good effect during the course of her hospitalization. 
On discharge , she will resume her Lantus 40 units nightly. 
Cardiovascular: The patient has a history of diastolic dysfunction with a clean cath in 2005. 
Her aspirin , statin , Zestril , Cardizem , Lasix and nitrates were continued during the course of her hospitalization in the same way that she takes them at home with very well controlled blood pressures and no issues with her rhythm. 
The patient has a history of obstructive sleep apnea but does not use CPAP and do not have any difficulties with her oxygenation even while sleeping. 
Heme: The patient was initially anemic and thrombocytopenic on admission. 
She received one unit of packed red blood cells and her hematocrit remained stable through the duration of her hospitalization. 
Oncology: The patient has ductal carcinoma and inflammatory breast cancer that is likely stage IV and she is status post cycle 2 of 16 of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with Adriamycin and cytoxan with a plan for surgical removal after her chemotherapy. 
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to home with VNA services and physical therapy at home. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4 h. 
p.r.n. headache , aspirin 81 mg daily , Lipitor 40 mg daily , bacitracin topical to rash twice daily , Keflex 500 mg p.o. q.i.d. x5 days starting on 2/8/06 to be completed on 9/23/06 , chlorhexidine three packets daily washing area of rash , darbepoetin 100 mcg subcutaneously weekly , diltiazem ER 240 mg daily , Colace 100 mg twice daily , ferrous sulfate 300 mg daily , Allegra 60 mg twice daily , Lasix 20 mg daily , hydrocortisone 2.5% cream topically twice daily to rash , Dilaudid 2 to 4 mg p.o. q.4 h. 
p.r.n. pain , Lantus 40 units subcutaneously every evening , isosorbide dinitrate 10 mg three times daily , Zestril 2.5 mg daily , Ativan 0.5 mg twice daily p.r.n. nausea , insomnia and anxiety , ocean nasal spray two sprays nasally four times a day , multivitamin one tab daily , Valtrex 1000 mg q.8 h. 
x21 doses , triamcinolone cream topically once daily. 
PHYSICIAN FOLLOWUP PLANS: The patient will call Dr. Prazak 's clinic to make an appointment to follow up with her. 
The patient is full code. 
eScription document: 5-5146041 CSSten Tel Dictated By: LANE , DELOIS Attending: PRAZAK , ELINORE HYMAN Dictation ID 1367657 D: 2/8/06 T: 2/8/06