001136519 | PUO | 94521329 | | 424684 | 10/24/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/3/1992 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/24/1992 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: 1 ) DEGENERATIVE JOINT DISEASE , RIGHT ANKLE ( RIGHT TIBIOTALAR JOINT ) SECONDARY TO TRAUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 2 ) INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES. 3 ) HYPERTENSION. 
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: Tibiotalar fusion with cross-cannulated AO screws times three and local bone graft performed 1/10/92 by Dr. Brooke Lemmen HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 44 year old Phys. 
Ed. teacher had a long history of ankle pain on the right side. 
He had a fracture as a child which was fixed with an open reduction and internal fixation. 
He sustained a second ankle fracture a number of years later when he fell off a ladder and refractured his ankle. 
Currently , he has pain on all movements of the ankle while walking and performing any activity. 
The pain is primarily in the ankle joint but also in his mid foot. 
He has been controlling his pain with Darvocet as well as intramuscular Tordal 15 to 30 mg four times a day. 
He denies any other joint involvement and he denies any motor or sensory changes. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for Insulin dependent diabetes currently managed with 32 units of NPH Humulin. 
He also has a history significant for hypertension. 
He denies bowel or bladder dysfunction , he denies coronary artery disease , dysrrhythmia , or murmur , he denies peptic ulcer disease , and he denies thyroid gland abnormality. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for fracture times two of his right ankle status post open reduction and internal fixation first time in 1965 and second time in 1988 , he had herniorrhaphy in 1978 , he had drainage of a right thumb abscess in 1988 , and he has had septicemia treated at Whid Downdoc Rehabilitation Of in February and September of 1991. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: NPH Insulin 32 units every morning , Procardia XL 90 mg q.a.m. , Lotensin 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , potassium supplement , and then Ketorolac 15-30 mg intramuscularly q.i.d. , and Darvocet N-100 one to four tablets q.d. 
ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies. 
He denies smoking history and he denies ethanol abuse. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative for dyspnea on exertion , shortness of breath , palpitations , or anginal like symptoms. 
He does get bilateral leg edema. 
He has not had any evidence of neuropathy , retinopathy , or nephropathies associated with his diabetes. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Well-developed 44 year old male who appears stated age. 
HEENT: Demonstrated pupils to be equal and reactive , extraocular muscles intact , and oropharynx was clear. 
NECK: Supple with full painless range of motion and there was no goiter , adenopathy , or jugular venous distention. 
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation. 
CARDIAC: Demonstrated a regular rate and rhythm without significant murmur , rub , or thrill. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , non-obese , and non-tender without evidence of hepatosplenomegaly. 
ORTHOPEDIC: Demonstrated that he had approximately 10 degrees of dorsiflexion , 10 degrees of plantar flexion with very limited subtalar motion , good mid foot motion but with some pain on motion of the mid foot. 
There was pain during movement of his tibiotalar joint. 
Specifically , there was little pain with motion of the subtalar joint or the mid foot. 
He had good dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis pulses , he had normal sensation at the first dorsal web space , dorsum , and plantar aspects of the foot , and the hindfoot appeared to be in neutral position. 
There did not appear to be any supination or pronation deformities. 
He had full painless range of motion at the hip and at the knee on the ipsilateral side. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: X-Rays demonstrated marked degenerative joint disease with a complete obliteration of the articular joint space in the lateral half of the joint. 
There were also some degenerative changes in the mid foot. 
His pre-operative laboratory evaluation demonstrated EKG with normal sinus rhythm and no evidence of ischemic changes , glucose was 133 , BUN was 35 , creatinine 1.2 , potassium of 4.2 , liver function tests were entirely within normal limits , hematocrit was 42.8 , white blood cell count was 9 , and the PT and PTT were 11.6 and 28.2 respectively. 
The patient's urinalysis was entirely clear for bacteria and negative for glucose and ketones. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted as a same day surgery candidate with traumatic arthritis at the right tibiotalar joint and he underwent tibiotalar fusion with cross-cannulated AO screws and local bone graft. 
The procedure involved partial fibulectomy as well as a partial osteotomy of the medial malleolus. 
The position of the ankle at the end of the procedure was neutral dorsiflexion , plantar flexion , and neutral varus/valgus. 
He had a general endotracheal anesthetic for failed sciatic nerve block , estimated blood loss was 200 cc , and total tourniquet time was 1 hour and 57 minutes. 
He received 2500 cc of crystalloid intraoperatively and he tolerated the procedure well. 
Post-operatively , his motor and sensory examinations were intact with regard to deep and superficial peroneal and posterior tibialis nerves. 
His Hemovac put out a total of 150 cc and was removed on post-operative day number one. 
He initially was kept in a posterior splint with anterior wings. 
This was changed on post-operative day two. 
The wound appeared to be clean and dry and he was placed in a short-leg fiberglass cast since there was little swelling apparent. 
He had an X-Ray after placement of the cast and the position of the ankle looked to be in neutral position and neutral varus/valgus. 
He was cleared by Physical Therapy ambulatory , non-weight bearing , with use of crutches. 
He did not have any difficulties with the cast , no significant swelling , and was discharged on post-operative day three. 
The patient did have some elevated temperatures which were attributed to atelectasis and was encouraged to cough and deep breath. 
DISPOSITION: Patient will follow-up with Dr. Brooke Lemmen in approximately three weeks at which time the cast will be changed and stitches removed. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: The medications that he was admitted on with the addition of Vicodan one to two p.o. q.3-4h. 
p.r.n. , Naprosyn 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. as a substitute for the Tordal , and Halcion 0.125 to 0.25 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. 
YU239/5860 BROOKE D. LEMMEN , M.D. SG66 D: 1/24/92 Batch: 2550 Report: F9439C5 T: 2/1/92 Dictated By: