993268545 | PUO | 20926109 | | 762689 | 2/29/1997 12:00:00 AM | R/O MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/29/1997 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 4/14/1997 FINAL DIAGNOSIS: ( 1 ) UNSTABLE ANGINA ( 2 ) CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE ( 3 ) DIABETES MELLITUS HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 62 year old female with history of coronary artery disease who presented with unstable angina. 
The patient's cardiac risk factors include diabetes mellitus , hypercholesterolemia , and post-menopausal. 
She presented to an outside hospital in 1992 with substernal chest pain. 
A cardiac catheterization at that time revealed an right coronary artery with diffuse disease , moderate to severe proximal left anterior descending artery lesion at diagonal 1 , moderate mid- left anterior descending artery lesion , and a tight left circumflex. 
She underwent a PTCA of the left circumflex artery with improvement. 
She was well until approximately one year ago when she began having exertional chest pain. 
Her chest pain has been worsening over the past several months and has been occurring with less and less exertion. 
She was admitted in July of 1996 for chest pain and ruled out for a myocardial infarction. 
An exercise Thallium test was negative. 
She was well until February of 1997 when she again developed exertional chest pain. 
She said that the chest pain was substernal. 
It had no radiation and no nausea or vomiting and no diaphoresis. 
She had an exercise test on 10/15/97 where she was only able to exercise for three minutes and stopped secondary to shortness of breath. 
She was scheduled for an elective catheterization on 9/20/97 but her chest pain has been slowly worsening over the past couple of months. 
She reports a history of exertional chest pain at only one-half block. 
Normally her chest pain was relieved with one sublingual nitroglycerin. 
On the evening prior to admission she woke up at 3 a.m. with severe substernal chest pain. 
She had no relief with three sublingual nitroglycerin and , therefore , presented to the emergency room. 
In the emergency room she was made pain-free with IV nitroglycerin. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease as above. 
Diabetes mellitus. 
MEDICATIONS: Lopressor 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Zocor 20 mg p.o. qhs , and Metformin. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the emergency room department with chest pain but became pain-free with sublingual nitroglycerin. 
The heparin was started in the emergency room and the patient was given aspirin. 
The patient's admission ECG demonstrated sinus bradycardia with no changes from her previous ECG. 
During the first several days of admission the patient began complaining of some left chest pain but , on further questioning , the pain was under her left breast and radiating to her right back and she was tender to palpation. 
Examination under the left breast revealed three to four vesicles on an erythematous base felt to be consistent with zoster. 
The patient was therefore started on Famvir with some improvement of the pain and the lesion. 
In addition to the superficial chest pain the patient did have some chest pain which was felt to be cardiac in origin although she did not have any ECG changes. 
She was continued on nitroglycerin and heparin and her Lopressor was increased as tolerated. 
The patient underwent a cardiac catheterization on 5/26/97. 
Although the final catheterization report is not available yet , the catheterization showed three vessel disease with normal left ventricular function. 
It was felt that the patient needed to go for coronary artery bypass graft but , due to the fact that she had the herpes zoster under her left breast , it was decided to wait to do the coronary artery bypass graft until her zoster had improved. 
Therefore the patient was discharged to home and will undergo coronary artery bypass graft in several weeks. 
Prior to discharge the patient was seen by surgery and anesthesia for her preoperative workup. 
There were no complications. 
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , NPH 26 units q.a.m. and 20 units q.p.m. , Lopressor 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingual q5m times three , Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Percocet 1 to 2 tablets p.o. q4h p.r.n. pain , Zocor 20 mg p.o. qhs , Famciclovir 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. times 7 days. 
FOLLOWUP: The patient will follow-up with Dr. Bree Theiling on 2/20/97 and will follow-up with cardiac surgery. 
Dictated By: MA YEAGLEY , M.D. AM16 Attending: LASHANDA L. BACHMANN , M.D. XR66 JF789/1407 Batch: 1081 Index No. UWJJKT65ME D: 3/30/97 T: 3/30/97