550343443 | PUO | 55691308 | | 142217 | 11/27/1998 12:00:00 AM | PNEUMONIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/23/1998 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 2/15/1998 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: COMMUNITY ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA. 
PROBLEM LIST: 1 ) COMMUNITY ACQUIRED PNEUMONIA. 2 ) HISTORY OF MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION. 3 ) NON-INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS. 
4 ) RECENT DIAGNOSIS OF SLEEP APNEA. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 65 year-old male whose past medical history is significant for myocardial infarction in 1996 without residual angina , non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , and a recent diagnosis of sleep apnea. 
He was in his usual state of health until three days prior to admission when he began to develop a cough productive occasionally of yellow sputum , dyspnea on exertion and temperatures to 102 degrees. 
One day prior to admission , he went to his primary healthcare provider where he was diagnosed with pneumonia and given Erythromycin and Ciprofloxacin without improvement. 
The following day , he went back to his primary care provider and was given cough syrup with Codeine , but without relief and through the course of that day , he developed increasing shortness of breath , chills and diaphoresis and so he presented to the emergency room. 
In the emergency room , he had a temperature of 100 degrees with room air oxygen saturations between 90% and 95%. 
He was cultured and a chest x-ray was taken which showed a right middle lobe infiltrate and therefore , he was admitted with a community acquired pneumonia resistant to outpatient management. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As above. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs: Temperature 100.1 degrees , blood pressure 130/80 , heart rate 60 , oxygen saturation 99% on three liters nasal cannula. 
His HEENT examination was unremarkable. 
His lung examination revealed rhonchorous breath sounds throughout with decreased breath sounds at his bases , right greater than left. 
He also had diffuse inspiratory and expiratory wheezes. 
His cardiac examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 , no murmurs , gallops or rubs. 
The abdominal examination was benign. 
His extremities revealed no edema. 
His neurological examination was non-focal. 
LABORATORY: His laboratory studies were notable for a chem-7 that was within normal limits. 
His CBC revealed a white blood cell count of 7.3 with a hematocrit of 33.5 and a platelet count of 130. 
His EKG showed normal sinus rhythm at 60 with left atrial enlargement. 
There were no ischemic changes. 
His chest x-ray revealed diffuse infiltrates bilaterally with a more focal area of consolidation in the right middle lobe. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient is a 65 year-old male with diabetes mellitus , coronary artery disease and sleep apnea who was admitted with a community acquired pneumonia who had failed outpatient management. 
He was initially started on intravenous Cefuroxime and Azithromycin for likely community acquired bacterial pathogens and atypical organisms. 
He was cultured and sputums were obtained , however no organisms were ever isolated throughout his hospital course. 
On hospital day number two , he developed increasing shortness of breath with oxygen saturations of roughly 86% on six liters. 
At this time , his lung examination was notable for marked increase in the inspiratory and expiratory wheezes with decreased air movements. 
The rest of his examination at this time including the cardiac examination was unremarkable. 
This event was felt to be bronchospasm due to airway inflammation and he was treated with numerous Albuterol nebulizers and intravenous Lasix on which his oxygenation gradually improved to 96% on six liters. 
Because of the concern of reactive airway disease and perhaps worsening pneumonia , he was at this time switched to Legionella doses of Azithromycin and was started on aggressive nebulizer treatments. 
However , at this time , the possibility of flash pulmonary edema causing cardiac problems was also raised. 
However , it was noted at this time that there was no clear precipitant for an episode of flash pulmonary edema and that his blood pressure was at baseline. 
His heart rate was at 70 and he had not become obviously fluid overloaded. 
Nonetheless , he received a cardiac work-up which concluded that he was being ruled out for a myocardial infarction and the following day , he received an echocardiogram which revealed an ejection fraction of 58% with apical inferior and inferoseptal akinesis. 
There was no marked left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Therefore , it was thought unlikely that flash pulmonary edema had significantly contributed to his hypoxia and he was subsequently treated solely for severe community acquired pneumonia with a large bronchospastic component. 
He was therefore continued on Cefuroxime and Azithromycin with gradual resolution of his fevers and a significant improvement in his air movement and his pulmonary examination. 
Two weeks prior to this admission , he was started on a Prednisone taper and subsequent underwent marked improvement in his air movement and in the degree of bronchospasm. 
Therefore , he was discharged home on the following medications. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1 ) Biaxin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. times two day to complete a long course for atypical coverage. 
2 ) Albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. p.r.n. shortness of breath. 
3 ) Enteric coated aspirin. 
4 ) Glyburide 5 mg p.o. q. day. 
5 ) Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. 6 ) Prednisone taper. 
7 ) Timoptic one drop o.u. q. PM. 8 ) Cardura one p.o. q. day. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient was discharged in stable condition. 
FOLLOW-UP: The patient is to follow-up with his primary care provider. 
We have also asked him to follow-up on two laboratory abnormalities which came back through his hospitalization and he was noted to have a microcytic anemia and he had iron studies sent which revealed an iron of 16 and a TIBC of 241. 
His primary care provider is aware of this and will follow-up on this as an outpatient. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home. 
Dictated By: ARNULFO MACKLER , M.D. QL70 Attending: MELDA X. IVASKA , M.D. WK97 LE311/7148 Batch: 28003 Index No. YXCAQPEV1 D: 9/3/98 T: 5/25/98