513604071 | PUO | 05855004 | | 3651153 | 8/15/2005 12:00:00 AM | RIGHT FOOT GANGRENE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/5/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 4/7/2005 ATTENDING: LOERWALD , PENNIE MICHEAL MD DATE OF DISCHARGE: Unknown. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Gangrenous fourth right toe with necrotic right great toe ulcer and right forefoot cellulitis. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Luc is a 57-year-old male with a history of a poor medical follow up smoking and untreated diabetes mellitus who first noted blisters on the tip of his right fourth toe and under medial right great toe from ill-fitting tissues approximately a year prior to his admission. 
Both ulcers have been nonhealing and cyclically formed dark eschars and superficial scabs which have been treated with lotion as recommended by his podiatrist. 
Five to six months ago , he traveled to St. Lub Blo and spend some time in hot tubs and Jacuzzi's but his ulcers continued to form eschars without healing completely and also episodically became erythematous and painful with involvement of the forefoot. 
Each episode usually resolved with foot elevation and rest. 
On 8/29/05 , after long walks , he noticed that the right fourth toe turned to a dark purple color , was malodorous. 
He had pain with weightbearing and was obliged to heel walk. 
Over the next several days , the forefoot became erythematosus and swollen as well. 
He denied any fevers , chills , nausea , vomiting , cough , headache , although he had an episode of malaise and chills that lasted three days several weeks prior to his admission. 
His appetite had been stable. 
He had not had any recent weight change. 
Functionally , he was doing well. 
Ambulation was limited only by foot pain. 
He denied claudication , chest pressure , dyspnea on exertion. 
He would sleep on one pillow at night with head flat. 
He denied lightheadedness or any presyncopal episodes. 
On 5/30/05 , he presented to Norap Valley Hospital for workup of his painful forefoot and toe ulcers. 
He was afebrile with vital signs stable. 
His right fourth toe was described as blackened with clear demarcation at the metatarsal junction , and eschar was noted on the right first toe. 
He is white blood cell count at that stage was 12.7. 
Plain films were notable for suspicious swelling about the fourth toe with evidence of gas noted within the soft tissues of the medial aspect of the fourth toe in the proximal interphalangeal joint. 
He went on to have ABIs that were 0.32 on the right side and 0.43 on the left side and PVRs were normal at 5 level only. 
He also underwent a cardiac workup that was notable for SPECT/MIBI that showed a reversible defect involving the basal , mid and apical segments of the anterior wall consistent with myocardial ischemia. 
An echo showed an ejection fraction of 45% and possible septal hypokinesis. 
Given the positive stress test and a positive need for cardiac cath , he was transferred to Pagham University Of for further management. 
He did not feel that would have change in appearance since 1/25 although the pain had increasing intensity. 
He denied any sensory or motor deficits , but he had pain whenever he moved his toes or put any weight. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Rheumatoid arthritis since 1980s that was untreated , type II diabetes mellitus since 1990s that was untreated , multiple bony injuries to his right foot , and a football accident as a teenager. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Bilateral mastoidectomies in 1970s and 1980s , status post penile surgery at childhood , status post sebaceous cyst removal in 2004. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: None. 
ALLERGIES: NKDA. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: One to three packs per day for 40 years , quit in 1980 , alcoholic until 1993 but had been sober attending AA since then. 
Prior heroin , speed and barbiturate abuse , with history of cocaine , tranquilizers , marijuana use; has been clean since 1993. 
He used to work for a moving company , no disability and lives alone in Longwa He is single and has no children. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , temperature 99.6 , heart rate 72 , blood pressure 150/86 , respiratory rate 16 , oxygen saturation 99% on room air. 
General appearance: Elderly looking gentleman in no apparent distress with bilateral hearing aids. 
HEENT: No JVP , no carotid bruits. 
Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm. 
Lungs: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Birthmark on right upper back. 
Abdomen: Mildly distended , soft , nontender , no pulsatile masses. 
Bilateral lower extremity skin hallus with normal color and temperature down to feet. 
Right forefoot was erythematous and edematous and warm with no fluctuance or crepitus. 
His plantar surface was tender to palpation immediately beneath the fourth metatarsal. 
His right fourth toe was necrotic and malodorous with no purulent discharge. 
His anteromedial aspect of his right great toe had a 0.5 cm round ulcer with dark eschar center and desiccated edges with mild erythema and induration around it. 
Dorsiflexion was 5/5 and plantar flexion 4-/5 and limited by pain. 
He had full strength on the left side , normal sensation throughout both feet. 
Pulses: Right carotid 2+ femoral dopplerable , DP dopplerable , PT dopplerable. 
Left carotid 2+ femoral , 1+ DP , none PT dopplerable. 
Bedside ABIs: Right side 0.43 , left side 0.51. 
He was admitted with diagnosis of a multilevel arterial insufficiency bilaterally and need for fourth toe amputation impossible for debridement followed by angio for possible revascularization. 
PROCEDURES AND OPERATIONS: 7/23/05: Attending surgeon , Rossie Mankoski , M.D. Open amputation of right fourth toe. 8/17/05: Attending surgeon , Isabelle Colasamte , M.D. Coronary artery bypass grafting x4 with saphenous vein graft to acute marginal distal PDA , left internal mammary artery to the LAD , Y left radial artery from LIMA to the ramus intermedius to the posterior left ventricular branch of the circumflex. 
7/23/05: Left to right femoral to femoral artery bypass using an 8 mm Dacron graft. 
9/26/05: Attending surgeon , Rossie Mankoski , M.D. Right femoropopliteal bypass grafting and amputation of the right third and fifth toe. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Mr. Luc underwent amputation of his fourth toe on the right side after his admission. 
He tolerated his procedure well. 
A few days later , he underwent the previously mentioned coronary artery bypass grafting; please refer to the previously dictated summary , dictation ID 3749517 for details. 
After his coronary bypass grafting , he underwent a femoral-femoral bypass grafting with debridement of his right toe amputations site. 
After his procedure , he had a weak dorsal pedis , a questionable posterior tibial and normal popliteal signal on Doppler but none of his pulses were palpable. 
His femoral-femoral graft was easily palpable on his abdomen. 
Due to his poor vascularization of his right lower extremity , he underwent a femoropopliteal bypass grafting on the right with a nonreversed saphenous vein grafting from the ipsilateral leg and amputation of his right and fifth toe and closure of his lateral foot. 
He tolerated this procedure well. 
The rest of his hospital course was complicated by a worsening of the left lower extremity perfusion. 
His left foot was slightly cooler than his right and his Doppler signals fainted. 
An initial mottle appearance of his left lower extremity improved with time. 
On 4/8 , his wounds were dry , clean and intact. 
He had a palpable femoral-femoral graft and dopplerable left PT and DP pulses with monophasic signal. 
Both his PT and DP on the right are dopplerable as well with biphasic signal. 
The same day , his Foley catheter was removed and he started mobilizing with heel weightbearing on the right and with help of physical therapy and the nursing personnel he is currently actively screened for rehabilitation. 
His discharge would be complete. 
Will await this??_____??. eScription document: 5-6838290 EMSFocus transcriptionists Dictated By: ZINIEWICZ , HORACIO Attending: LOERWALD , PENNIE MICHEAL Dictation ID 0198894 D: 10/12/05 T: 10/12/05