816645569 | PUO | 32646255 | | 1674683 | 10/4/2006 12:00:00 AM | asthma | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/4/2006 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 3/16/2006 ATTENDING: TROJAN , LUISE M.D. SERVICE: MH team. 
PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN: Dr. Sana Azua PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS FOR ADMISSION: Asthma exacerbation. 
LIST OF PROBLEMS DURING HOSPITALIZATION: 1. Asthma exacerbation. 
2. Diabetes mellitus. 
3. Iron deficiency anemia. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 38-year-old female with a history of asthma , type II diabetes mellitus , obesity , depression , and iron deficiency anemia who presented to Pagham University Of on 3/9/06 complaining of worsening shortness of breath and chest tightness over the past three days after running out of her asthma medications approximately two weeks ago. 
The patient had ran out of her Advair , albuterol , and Singulair as well as her Lasix. 
She denied any fevers or chills , no nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , chest pain , or cough. 
She did report some increased lower extremity edema over the past several days and admits to not taking her Lasix. 
She went to KTDUOO urgernt care on the day of admission and was found to have an oxygen saturation of 84% on room air and she was sent to the Emergency Room for admission. 
In the ED , she received nebulizer treatments and prednisone 60 mg x1 and her O2 saturation improved to 95% on 2 liters. 
HOME MEDICATIONS: The patient takes Advair 500/50 b.i.d. , albuterol nebulizers q.4h. 
p.r.n. , iron 325 mg t.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg daily , Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. daily , metformin 850 mg b.i.d. , Prozac 40 mg daily , Singulair 10 mg daily , and a multivitamin daily. 
ALLERGIES: The patient has no known drug allergies. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Pertinent for shortness of breath and chest tightness. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Exam on admission , patient was afebrile. 
Her pulse was 100 , blood pressure 116/70 , respiratory rate 22 , and O2 saturation of 95% on 2 liters. 
The patient was awake , alert and oriented x3 and in no apparent distress. 
Her lungs had scattered wheezing bilaterally with good air movement. 
Heart with normal S1 , S2 and tachycardic. 
Abdomen is obese , soft , nondistended , nontender. 
Extremities had 1+ bilateral pitting edema and mild erythema of her bilateral shins. 
PERTINENT LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: White blood cell count was 10.6 and hematocrit 30. 
Chest x-ray showed a large cardiac silhouette with no evidence of effusion or infiltrate. 
The patient had a PE protocol CT which was a suboptimal study due to poor body habitus but it was negative for PE , it did show bilateral ground glass opacities and evidence of air trapping. 
It also showed moderate hepatomegaly. 
PROCEDURES DURING HOSPITALIZATION: The patient had a PECT and she also had pulmonary function tests performed. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: This is a 38-year-old female with asthma , diabetes , anemia , and morbid obesity who was admitted with his asthma exacerbation in the setting of running out of her medications at home. 
1. Pulmonary: The patient was started on prednisone 60 mg p.o. daily and remained on it for approximately seven days. 
It was difficult to taper her prednisone due to oxygen desaturations with ambulation. 
The patient's oxygen desaturated to 74-84% with ambulation. 
The patient , however , was tapered and is currently on 50 mg daily , of prednisone and will be sent out on a seven-day taper. 
She was also continued on her Advair and Singulair. 
As mentioned above , she had a PE protocol CT that showed no PE. However , it was a suboptimal study due to patient's body habitus. 
It did show ground glass opacities. 
Because the patient had desaturations with ambulation , it was concerned that the patient possibly had an atypical pneumonia given these ground glass opacities. 
She was started on levofloxacin and should complete a five-day course. 
The patient was also tested for HIV which was negative. 
She had a BNP to rule out any evidence of volume overload that was contributing to her oxygen desaturations. 
BNP was 5. The patient also had hepatitis serologies due to hepatomegaly seen on PECT and these were negative as well. 
Influenza swabs were negative. 
The patient was seen in consult by the pulmonary team and they felt that the patient requireed home oxygen especially at night and with ambulation. 
The patient's O2 saturation while sleeping was 84%. 
It is highly suspected that the patient has a component of sleep apnea and she is to be set up for an outpatient sleep study. 
Pulmonary also recommended obtaining a pulmonary function test. 
These were done and it showed an FVC of 51% and an FEV1 of 49% and an FEV-FVC ratio of 97% as well as a total lung capacity of 53% and a DLCO of 82%. 
Pulmonary function tests were consistent with restrictive disease and this is likely due to patient's obesity. 
The patient most likely has obesity hypoventilation. 
We spoke with her in depth about the importance of losing weight to help improve her respiratory status as well as her overall health. 
The patient is scheduled to have an outpatient sleep study and she is also to follow up with her outpatient pulmonologist , Dr. Chuong Home oxygen was set up for the patient as well. 
2. Cardiovascular: The patient was continued on her lisinopril and her Lasix was resumed for her lower extremity edema. 
This did improve throughout her hospitalization. 
A lipid panel was checked and this was in the normal range. 
The patient should be started on aspirin given her diabetes and her hypertension. 
However , she has been experienced menorrhagia and is anemic so the aspirin should be started as an outpatient after her menorrhagia is addressed. 
3. Hematology: The patient was found to be iron deficient by labs and she was continued on iron supplements three times a day. 
The patient also complains of heavy menstruation and she has a history of uterine fibroids , she was supposed to follow up with GYN as an outpatient but missed her appointment. 
She was instructed to follow up with GYN. 4. Endocrine: The patient's home medications of glyburide and metformin were held and she was placed on NPH 25 units b.i.d. with a NovoLog sliding scale and 12 units q.a.c. 
Her hemoglobin A1c was 7. She was resumed on her home regimen at discharge. 5. Prophylaxis: The patient received Lovenox and Nexium for prophylaxis. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT DISCHARGE: The patient was awake , alert , oriented x3. 
She is 95% on room air at rest but did continue to desaturate into the 80s with ambulation. 
She is awake , alert , oriented x3. 
Her lungs were clear bilaterally. 
There were no other pertinent findings on exam at discharge. 
CONSULTANTS DURING HOSPITALIZATION: Pulmonary was Dr. Sulentic DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: The patient was sent home on albuterol inhaler two puffs q.i.d. , ferrous sulfate 325 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Prozac 40 mg p.o. daily , Advair Diskus 500/50 one puff b.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily , glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. daily , Levaquin 750 mg p.o. daily , x1 more dose , lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. daily , metformin 850 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Singulair 10 mg p.o. daily , Nexium 40 mg p.o. daily , and a prednisone taper 40 mg daily x2 days , then 30 mg daily x2 days , then 20 mg daily x2 days , then 10 mg daily x2 days , then stopping it and multivitamin one tablet daily. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON DISCHARGE: The patient was encouraged to follow up with GYN as an outpatient regarding her uterine fibroids and menorrhagia. 
A follow-up appointment was scheduled with both her primary care physician and Dr. Schlesener in February She met with Nutrition during the hospitalization and had a long conversation with the medical team regarding weight loss strategies. 
ADVANCE DIRECTIVES: The patient is a full code. 
eScription document: 5-9396153 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: OSMERS , TESSA Attending: TROJAN , LUISE Dictation ID 3557453 D: 2/27/06 T: 2/27/06