317582123 | PUO | 04593167 | | 6109690 | 11/28/2005 12:00:00 AM | VENTRICULAR FIBRILLATION ARREST | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/10/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 1/17/2005 ATTENDING: PANAGOS , FAITH M.D. CHIEF COMPLAINT: Status post cardiac arrest. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Cavaiani is a 54-year-old man with a history of diabetes , end-stage renal disease , CAD , long QT interval , seizure disorder , and mental status changes who presents following cardiac arrest. 
The patient presented to his regular hemodialysis appointment at Delpnecrest Ce Medical Center on 2/20/05 where during his dialysis , he noted that he began to feel strange. 
He had a questionable seizure earlier in the day per history. 
During the dialysis , he became increasingly confused and was sent for further evaluation to the Norap Valley Hospital Emergency Room. 
At the P Therford Hospital ED , an EKG was done , which showed tachycardia going in to torsade de pointes followed by ventricular fibrillation. 
He underwent a DC cardioversion shock at 200 joules and was converted to normal sinus rhythm. 
The patient was then intubated , as he was being coded. 
Furthermore , there is report of the patient developing a tonic-clonic seizure during the bagging phase of intubation. 
Follow this , a repeat EKG was obtained and showed a QT interval of 540. 
His baseline is apparently around 510 milliseconds. 
His electrolytes at that time were remarkable for potassium of 3.7 , bicarbonate of 30 , and magnesium level of 1.6 , and phosphate level of 0.9. 
He did have a slightly elevated troponin level. 
He was then transferred to the Pagham University Of for further workup and management. 
On arrival , the patient was intubated , sedated , with an amiodarone drip. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Diabetes mellitus , insulin dependent. 
2. End-stage renal disease with hemodialysis , on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday. 
3. CAD , status post a non-ST elevation MI in 6/29 .  
4. A long QT syndrome. 
5. Seizure disorder. 
6. Alcoholic cardiomyopathy complicated by gastritis. 
7. Chronic pancreatitis. 
8. History of mental status changes with increased ICP. 9. Peripheral neuropathy. 
10. 
Peripheral vascular disease. 
11. 
Penile amputation secondary to infected implant. 
12. Depression. 
13. Hep B and hep C positive. 
ALLERGIES: Tetracycline. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: The patient was noted to be afebrile. 
His blood pressure was notable to be 240/79 and heart rate of 72. 
He was intubated on arrival on assist-control volume setting with the tidal volume of 500 mL , 12 beats per minute , on 50% oxygen. 
He was saturating 100% on room air. 
Pulmonary exam was notable for mechanical breath sounds without any wheezes , rhonchi or rales. 
Cardiovascular exam was notable for regular rate and rhythm , soft 2/6 holosystolic murmur heard loudest at the apex , and 2+ pulses distally. 
His abdominal exam was unremarkable. 
Extremity exam was notable for status post left leg below-the-knee amputation. 
Neurologically , the patient was unresponsive secondary to sedation , but was able to move all extremities when the sedation was decreased. 
He did responded ??_____?? purposefully to pain. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEMS: 1. Torsade de pointes status post DC cardioversion: Given his history of torsade de pointes requiring cardioversion , upon presentation to A Salt Medical Center , Mr. Grange electrolytes were vigorously repleted. 
He underwent an ischemic workup for the etiology for his initial presentation. 
He continued to have a prolonged QT interval and therefore medicated failed to exacerbate his already long QT interval , at baseline were discontinued. 
He was discontinued from his Celexa and levofloxacin. 
Throughout the remainder of his hospital course , Mr. Cavaiani was closely monitored via telemetry and was noted to have no further events of ventricular tachycardia. 
2. Ischemia: When he presented , the ischemic etiology for his ventricular tachycardia was considered. 
He was maintained on aspirin and also continued on his Plavix. 
A cardiac catheterization was done on 7/24/05 , which showed 30% occlusion of the left anterior descending proximal coronary artery , 65% occlusion of the ramus , 30% occlusion of the mid circumflex artery , 50% occlusion of the marginal 1 artery , and 100% occlusion of the distal RCA. 
None of these lesions were felt to have caused his ischemia such that it would have been the etiological factor for his torsades. 
He was followed throughout his hospital course by the Electrophysiology Service. 
3. Hypertension: While in the CCU , the patient had an echo , which showed severe concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with an ejection fraction of 55%. 
He was started on vigorous after-load reduction , which was titrated to his blood pressure throughout his hospital course. 
At the time of discharge , he was taking Lopressor , lisinopril , Norvasc , Isordil , and hydralazine. 
4. End-stage renal disease: The patient was continued on his repeat dialysis with close follow up from the Renal Service. 
He underwent regular dialysis on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday while at Pagham University Of .  
His electrolytes were followed daily and repleted as needed. 
5. Seizure disorder: The patient , although on presentation was believed to have had a tonic-clonic seizure. 
He was maintained on his Keppra throughout his course and was seizure-free while hospitalized. 
6. Diabetes mellitus: The patient presented with markedly labile blood sugars. 
While admitted to the CCU , he was placed on the Portland protocol in order to maintain tight glycemic control. 
He was followed by the Endocrine Team , who recommended switch to Lantus for basal control and regular insulin prior to meals. 
His glucose levels were followed daily and his insulin regimen was titrated in order to attain appropriate glycemic control. 
7. Nutrition: The patient was initially started on tube feeds for nutrition. 
A NG tube was placed secondary to his altered mental status. 
However , during his hospitalization , he had multiple episodes of agitations , during which he pulled out his NG tube. 
He was trialed with a soft diet after consultation with the Speech and Swallow Service on 2/1 .  
As he was able to tolerate these p.o. feeds , this diet was continued. 
COMPLICATIONS: None. 
CONSULTANTS: 1. Electrophysiology Service. 
2. Renal Service. 
3. Endocrinology Service. 
4. Speech and Swallow. 5. Physical therapy. 
MEDICATIONS AT THAT TIME OF DISCHARGE: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. headache , aspirin 81 mg to be taken daily , Colace 100 mg by mouth twice daily , folic acid 1 mg by mouth daily , heparin 5000 units to be injected subcutaneously three times daily while the patient is immobilized , hydralazine 40 mg by mouth every six hours , to be held for systolic blood pressure less than 100 , insulin sliding scale , regular insulin 3 units to be taken prior to every meal , Isordil 30 mg by mouth three times daily , to be held if systolic blood pressure is less than 90 , Lopressor 25 mg by mouth three times daily , to be held is systolic blood pressure is less than 100 or if the heart rate is less than 55 , nystatin mouthwash 500 units by mouth to be used four times daily , Keppra 500 mg by mouth once daily , Nexium 40 mg by mouth twice daily , Lantus insulin 10 units subcutaneously once daily , lisinopril 40 mg by mouth once daily , Norvasc 10 mg by mouth once daily , to be held for systolic blood pressure less than 100 , Lipitor 80 mg by mouth once daily , Nephrocaps one tablet by mouth once daily , and Plavix 75 mg by mouth once daily. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE: The patient is in no acute distress. 
He is cachetic appearing male. 
Pulmonary exam is notable for breath sounds that are coarse bilaterally. 
Upper airways sounds are prominent. 
Cardiac sounds are distant. 
He does have a systolic ejection murmur loudest at the apex. 
His abdomen is benign. 
There was some mild tenderness noted to be in the epigastrium. 
However , there is no rebound or guarding. 
His extremity exam is notable for status post left above-the-knee amputation. 
The patient is to follow up with his primary care physician and is to follow up with Endocrinology and to continue his dialysis on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday. 
He is to be discharged to a rehabilitation facility. 
eScription document: 0-3434899 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: OLDOW , TOMAS Attending: PANAGOS , FAITH Dictation ID 0004269 D: 1/5/05 T: 1/5/05