589836784 | PUO | 68474572 | | 862126 | 7/2/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/3/1996 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/13/1996 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: SEVERE CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE , STATUS POST PERCUTANEOUS TRANSLUMINAL CORONARY ANGIOPLASTY/STENT PLACEMENT TIMES TWO , LEFT CIRCUMFLEX CORONARY ARTERY. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Breisch is a 50-year-old male with a history of coronary artery disease significant for an 80% mid circumflex , 95% mid right , 70% distal right , 50% distal left anterior descending coronary artery lesions with posterobasilar hypokinesis in the setting of a preserved left ventricular ejection fraction , hypertension times greater than 30 years , and an elevated cholesterol who was in his normal state of health until the morning of admission. 
At that time , he was performing strenuous work in his bakery and began to suffer from 4/10 chest pain , "heaviness" , and discomfort. 
The pain did not radiate. 
He denies dizziness , shortness of breath , palpitations , and diaphoresis. 
The patient took one sublingual nitroglycerin and sat down with resolution of pain in approximately five minutes. 
The patient then returned to work. 
Several hours later , while again performing strenuous work , the patient suffered a similar episode of chest pain and heaviness which he rates as a 2/10. 
The patient sat down and , this time , the pain resolved without sublingual nitroglycerin in approximately three minutes. 
The patient was disconcerted by these multiple events and went to the Tona Medical Center Emergency Room for further work up. 
While sitting comfortably in the Emergency Room at Tona Medical Center , the patient suffered a similar event of chest pain and tightness , which he reports to be approximately 1.5/10. 
He took one sublingual nitroglycerin with resolution of his symptoms in approximately five minutes. 
The patient was transferred to A Salt Medical Center at that point. 
One hour later , in A Salt Medical Center Emergency Room , the patient suffered a similar episode of chest pain and tightness , this time rated at 1/10 , with resolution of pain in approximately one minute , not requiring sublingual nitroglycerin. 
The patient reported , at that time , that his life had been very stressful , and that he had been working very hard in his bakery. 
Review of symptoms is consistent with above and , otherwise , noncontributory. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Coronary artery disease diagnosed in 1994 with catheterization performed in April 1994. 
There was 80% mid circumflex , 70% distal , 95% mid right , 50% distal left anterior descending occlusions. 
Posterobasilar hypokinesia with preserved left ventricular ejection fraction. 
2. Hypertension times greater than 30 years. 
3. Hypercholesterolemia. 4. Hepatitis in 1991 , believed to be of a viral type with complete resolution of symptoms and no sequela. 
5. An exercise tolerance test in February 1996 that showed 2 mm ST segment depression in the inferior and lateral leads. 
The exercise tolerance test proceeded without chest pain. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Appendectomy in the distant past. 
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: 1. Spironolactone 25 mg p.o. q.a.m. 2. Simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. 3. Atenolol 100 mg p.o. q.day. 
4. Diltiazem 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. 5. Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.day. 
ALLERGIES: Shellfish causes a rash. 
There is no history of diabetes mellitus or cancer. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient denies current tobacco use. 
He reports a 40 pack year history , quitting five years ago. 
The patient denies alcohol use. 
The patient lives at home with wife. 
They have no children. 
The patient reports that he is now on a low cholesterol diet , has lost 100 lb over the last two years , and was successfully walking four to five miles a day without chest pain or other symptoms until the day prior to admission. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was afebrile. 
His blood pressure was 132/84 , heart rate 62 , and a room air saturation of 96%. 
Generally , Mr. Breisch was an alert , well appearing man in no apparent distress. 
He was eager to answer our questions. 
Head , eyes , ears , nose , and throat examination was significant only for exanthema under the right eye. 
The patient's neck was supple with full range of motion and no lymphadenopathy. 
There were bilateral carotid bruits. 
Carotid pulses were 2+. 
The patient had jugular venous distention of 6 cm with the head of the bed elevated at 15 degrees. 
Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Heart examination was significant for normal S1 and S2 , and a II/VI systolic ejection murmur that was heard best at the lower left sternal border , although it was audible at the right sternal border , left mid axillary line , and appeared to radiate to the carotids. 
The abdominal examination was benign. 
The patient's extremities were clear of cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. 
The patient had 2+ symmetrical pulses throughout. 
The patient was guaiac negative by report was normal tone. 
Neurologic examination was nonfocal and significant for the patient being alert and oriented times three , with a motor examination showing 5/5 strength throughout. 
Sensory examination was intact to light touch. 
Cranial nerves II-XII were intact. 
The patient had deep tendon reflexes that were 2+ throughout. 
LABORATORY DATA: The patient was found to have normal electrolytes. 
White count was 6.3 and hematocrit 41.2. 
CPK obtained at Lovelin Medical Center was 148 and serial CPKs obtained at A Salt Medical Center were 81 , 114 , 115 , respectively. 
No MB fraction was done. 
At Lovelin Medical Center , the patient had an EKG taken that was significant for normal sinus rhythm at 62 beats per minute with intervals of 169/93/402 with no Q waves , no ST changes. 
This was consistent with an EKG from September , 1996. 
An EKG obtained at A Salt Medical Center showed normal sinus rhythm at 64 beats per minute with intervals of 172/100/412 with one PVC captured. 
However , there were no Q waves and no ST changes. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was begun on heparin 1 , 000 units per hour IV after an initial 5 , 000 units IV bolus. 
The patient consistently maintained a PTT in the range of 60-80 seconds. 
The patient underwent a catheterization the day following admission which demonstrated 80% occlusion of the ramus branch , 100% occlusion of the left obtuse marginal branch number one , and a 100% occlusion of the patient's right coronary artery. 
It was decided that the patient would be a candidate for both conventional PTCA to attempt to repair the left circumflex coronary artery. 
However , the patient's severe coronary artery disease lead the interventional radiologists to consider the patient for a laser wire type of PTCA in the event that PTCA was not successful. 
As the laser wire PTCA was not available for several days , it was decided to have Mr. Breisch remain as an inpatient on heparin to maintain a PTT of 60-80 while awaiting the laser wire guided PTCA. 
Three days following admission , while awaiting PTCA , the patient had one episode of chest pain that he reports resolved in less than three minutes with one sublingual nitroglycerin tablet. 
The patient denied shortness of breath , palpitations , or diaphoresis. 
Since that time , the patient remained totally stable with no further events of chest pain and no EKG changes noted. 
The patient was begun on 250 mg of Ticlid b.i.d. two days prior to his catheterization procedure. 
On May , 1996 , five days after admission , the patient successfully underwent PTCA of his left circumflex artery which had previously had a 100% stenosis. 
The patient had two stents placed in the left circumflex artery , leaving a 0% residual lesion. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well , returned to the floor. 
The catheterization sheaths were removed six hours after the procedure. 
Examination the following morning revealed no further bleeding , no hematoma , and good pulses distally , as well as a warm and dry left lower extremity. 
As the patient tolerated the procedure well and had no further complications , it was decided that the patient could be discharged the day following his catheterization , maintained on 250 mg of Ticlid b.i.d. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Ticlid 250 mg p.o. b.i.d. , spironolactone 25 mg p.o. q.a.m. , simvastatin 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , atenolol 75 mg p.o. q.day , diltiazem 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.day. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Mr. Breisch will be discharged in stable condition following his PTCA from the day before. 
The patient will be discharged to home. 
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will follow up with Dr. Mackenzie Tyacke , his outside hospital cardiologist , in one to two weeks. 
We suspect that Mr. Breisch will be able to return to his normal activities of daily living without any further disability. 
Dictated By: MOSHE SHUGRUE Attending: BREE M. THEILING , M.D. QJ3  KM021/9926 Batch: 99344 Index No. T7QMOX25MG D: 2/8/96 T: 8/30/96 CC: 1. BREE M. THEILING , M.D. IY1 2. ELMER L. SIC , M.D. IQ54