825860830 | PUO | 51901519 | | 5655478 | 10/27/2004 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/29/2004 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/22/2004 ATTENDING: STACIE CLEVELAND HALECHKO MD PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Chemotherapy toxicity , atrial fibrillation , dehydration , colitis , liver failure. 
ASSOCIATED PROBLEMS/DIAGNOSES: Hypotension , diabetes mellitus , esophagitis , congestive heart failure. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Lewis is a 68-year-old woman with metastatic breast cancer that was first diagnosed in 1999 , and she is status post lumpectomy with lymph node dissection and multiple chemotherapy regimens. 
She is currently on Xeloda with excellent response; per Dr. Toni , her outpatient oncologist , she has virtually no evidence of metastatic disease on CT. 
Over the past few months , the patient has had chronic problems with nausea and decreased appetite. 
This has become especially acute over the past week , and as a result , her chemotherapy is now on hold. 
She has also had some worsening diarrhea , for which she was prescribed Imodium , but because of ongoing issues with compliance , it was felt that she was not taking enough at home. 
During an outpatient visit with her cardiologist , her blood pressure was noted to be 90/50 , so her dose of atenolol and Lasix was decreased. 
Of note , the patient is status post a recent admission to PUO for digoxin toxicity , so this medication is now also on hold. 
Of note , the patient is not currently on Coumadin despite a history of atrial fibrillation due to a history of GI bleeding , possible interactions with her chemotherapy regimen , and ongoing issues with medication compliance. 
The patient was admitted for rehydration , management of nausea/vomiting/diarrhea , and control of her pain and other symptoms. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Nausea/vomiting x several months , diarrhea approximately six times per day , worsening over the past week with green liquid stool , no blood in stool or vomit , no abdominal pain , no urinary symptoms. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Metastatic breast cancer ( diagnosed in 1999 , status post lumpectomy and lymph node dissection , formerly on numerous chemotherapy regimens including Adriamycin/cytoxan , Taxol , Taxotere/Herceptin , gemcitabine ) , atrial fibrillation/supraventricular tachycardia , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , cholecystitis , diabetes mellitus , esophagitis. 
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Lasix 20 mg q.d. , aspirin 325 mg q.d. , Xeloda 1500 mg b.i.d. ( two weeks/one week off ) , Zofran 8 mg t.i.d. , p.r.n. nausea , Compazine 10 mg q.i.d. p.r.n. nausea , Protonix 40 mg b.i.d. , atenolol 75 mg q.d. , Lomotil 1 mg b.i.d. , trazodone 50 mg q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , Percocet 325/5 mg p.r.n. pain , Ativan 1 mg q.i.d. p.r.n. anxiety , metformin 850 mg b.i.d. , Vioxx 12.5 mg q.d. 
ALLERGIES: Penicillin. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her daughter and grandson. 
She has no history of tobacco or alcohol use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs: Temperature 97.9 , pulse 101 , BP 80/66 , respiratory rate 16 , O2 sat 99% on room air. 
General: Alert , italian-speaking , no acute distress. 
HEENT: PERRL , EOMI , poor dentition , OP clear. 
Neck: No LAD , FROM , supple. 
Chest: CTAB. 
CV: Irregularly irregular , S1 , S2 , no murmurs/rubs/gallops. Abdomen: Soft , distended , mild tenderness to palpation in the lower quadrants bilaterally , slightly tympanitic , normoactive bowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly. 
Extremities: Warm/well perfused , trace DP/PT pulses , no clubbing/cyanosis/edema , ulcer on left large toe , severely cracked and dry skin on hands and feet. 
Neuro: Cranial nerves II through XII grossly intact , 5/5 strength throughout. 
LABORATORY VALUES: Significant for creatinine 1.3 , glucose 137 , WBC 9.6 with 28 polys and 29 bands , hematocrit 38.1 , total protein 5.2 , albumin 2.0 , ALT 41 , AST 18 , alk phos 61 , total bilirubin 2.5. 
An EKG showed atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response at approximately 140 beats/minute. 
No ST or T wave changes. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. GI: Colitis: Given the patient's persistent and chronic nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea , there was significant concern for small bowel obstruction on admission. 
However , a KUB and abdominal CT were both negative for small bowel obstruction. 
She was originally kept n.p.o. for bowel rest , and a nasogastric tube was placed with significant drainage. 
Stool studies were sent including C. difficile , ova and parasites , cecal leukocytes , and Shigella/salmonella/Yersinia/campylobacter studies , all of which were negative. 
Because of the concerning nature of the patient's symptoms , surgery consult was called , however they felt that her problems were likely nonsurgical in nature. 
CTs performed two days and five days after admission showed identical findings of right-sided colitis. 
They remained largely unchanged. 
Nevertheless , the patient experienced continued nausea and vomiting and also continued diarrhea throughout this time. 
Once her nasogastric tube output decreased significantly , approximately one week after admission , the tube was removed and the patient was started on p.o. , and her diet was advanced as tolerated. 
From that point on , the patient had no nausea or vomiting , and she is currently tolerating a full diet. 
Nevertheless , she continues to have mild diarrhea , now two episodes per day as compared to6 to 8 episodes per day prior to admission. 
In the end , the workup for the underlying cause of her nausea , vomiting , and diarrhea has been negative. 
It is therefore our suspicion that her symptoms are most likely secondary to toxicity from her chemotherapy medication , Xeloda. 
Of note , the patient also has other signs of Xeloda toxicity , including possible hepatotoxicity ( see below ) as well as severe cracking and drying of the skin on her hands and feet. 
2. Hepatitis: A CT performed on admission to evaluate for small bowel obstruction showed a significantly cirrhotic and fatty liver with no masses. 
On admission , the patient's total bilirubin was 2.5; however , her bilirubin levels escalated precipitously to a maximum of 17.6. 
At the same time , the patient developed clinical manifestations of this , including scleral icterus and jaundice. 
Also , as her albumin levels decreased to below 1.5 , she developed significant ascites and peripheral edema. 
Gastroenterology consult suggested a right upper quadrant ultrasound , which was negative for obstruction , a hepatic MRI , which also showed a cirrhotic and fatty liver , and also a diagnostic/therapeutic IR guided paracentesis , which drained 1 liter of sterile fluid. 
Hepatitis serologies were also sent , and the patient was hepatitis A and B negative , but C positive; however , her viral load was less than assay , and her AFP was within normal limits. 
A rheumatologic workup for autoimmune hepatitis was also negative. 
Because of the acuteness and the timing of her presentation , it was felt that her liver failure was likely secondary to a combination of hepatitis and also toxicity from her Xeloda. 
On discharge , the patient's hepatic function had been improving significantly for three days , with her albumin increasing , her INR decreasing and her bilirubin levels also decreasing. 
On discharge , her total bilirubin was 16.0 down from 17.6 , her albumin was 1.9 up from 1.5 , and her INR was 1.6 down from 2.6. 
It is anticipated that as the patient's nutritional status continues to improve , her hepatic function will continue to normalize with resulting normalization of her laboratory values. 
3. Cardiovascular: On admission , the patient was in atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response at the rate of approximately 140 beats per minute. 
She was also hypotensive , with a blood pressure of roughly 90/60. 
She was placed on cardiac telemetry , which recorded rapid a. fib. 
up to the 170s. 
As a result , she was given IV Lopressor with decreased heart rate but also significant reduction in her blood pressure requiring fluid boluses. 
After 24 hours , after her blood pressure had stabilized following the administration of intravenous fluids , she was started on a diltiazem drip at 5 mg per hour , which helped to establish stable rate control in the 80s with continued atrial fibrillation. 
At the same time , the patient was loaded with digoxin , but her levels were high; given that the patient was status post a recent admission for digoxin toxicity , this medication was subsequently held. 
In one incident , the patient developed a temporary junctional rhythm for approximately 5 minutes with a heart rate in the 50s. 
At that point , input was elicited from the cardiology consult service , who thought that her symptoms were likely secondary to the diltiazem drip. 
However , given concern for a tachy-brady syndrome , the possibility of an implantable cardiac pacemaker was discussed. 
However , the patient did not have any recurrence of the junctional rhythm. 
A TTE was obtained , which showed an ejection fraction of 60% with trace MR and moderate TR , left and right atrial enlargement , and normal left and right ventricular function. 
Once the patient was again taking p.o. medications , her diltiazem drip was changed to p.o. diltiazem. 
For the next several days , the patient had several episodes each night of 3 to 5 beat runs of NSVT. 
However , on the three days prior to discharge , the patient had no events on telemetry , and her heart rate was stable in the 60s to 80s , with a blood pressure running from 90-100/50-60. 
Shortly before discharge , the patient also developed episodic shortness of breath , which was attributed to mild pulmonary edema , and she responded well to boluses of IV Lasix. 
As a result , she was restarted on Aldactone with effective gentle diuresis. 
The plan on discharge will be to follow her volume status carefully and to adjust her diuretic regimen as needed to maintain her volume status with continued improvement in her hepatic function. 
4. Endocrine: The patient has a history of diabetes mellitus , and her metformin was held on admission secondary to an elevated creatinine. 
As a result , she was started on a lispro sliding scale. 
Given that she was n.p.o. for several days , she was not given any insulin and her blood sugars remained stable in the low 100s. 
After she again started taking p.o. , she was restarted on a sliding scale , and she maintained excellent blood sugar control between 100 and 150. 
A hemoglobin A1c obtained during this admission was also within normal limits. 
Of note , the patient has a left toe ulcer , and was seen by orthopedic surgeries and outpatient totally before admission. 
5. Heme: The patient had an INR of 2.6 on admission secondary to cirrhosis and poor nutrition. 
As a result , she was given vitamin K subcu n.p.o. as needed. 
As noted above , despite a history of atrial fibrillation , the patient is not on Coumadin at home secondary to poor med compliance. 
At home , she was only on aspirin , but this was also discontinue during the admission secondary to continued guaiac positive stool. 
Nevertheless , her hematocrit remained stable throughout her admission and she did not require any transfusions. 
As DVT prophylaxis , the patient was kept on Pneumo boots throughout the admission. 
At one point , she was noted to have left upper extremity swelling greater than the right upper extremity , but an ultrasound was negative for DVT. 
As noted above , on discharge , the patient's INR was improving secondary to improved nutrition. 
She will be discharged without any anticoagulation at present , however this can be further reevaluated as an outpatient by her cardiologist and oncologist. 
6. FEN: The patient was initially rehydrated with normal saline , however this was changed to D5W plus 3 amps of bicarb since she developed a bicarb gap. 
Once this gap was closed , she was given gentle normal saline as maintenance fluids. 
Once the patient started taking significant p.o. , her IV fluids were discontinued. 
The patient's electrolytes were also repleted as necessary. 
Plan on discharge will be to continue following her electrolytes closely to prevent further exacerbation of her cardiac arrhythmias. 
7. Pain: The patient was given oxycodone p.o. and morphine IV for pain. 
The patient was previously on Vioxx at home for orthopedic pain related to her diabetes , however , given recent data suggesting possible cardiotoxic effects of Vioxx , this will be discontinued , and she will be sent home with oxycodone p.r.n. for pain. 
8. Onc: The patient's Xeloda is currently on hold since many of her symptoms leading up to this admission were likely secondary to chemo toxicity. 
As noted above , the patient has other evidence of chemo toxicity as well , including significantly dried skin on her hands and feet. 
The patient's outpatient oncologist , Dr. Carmelita Toni , followed her closely during this admission , and she will follow up with the patient regarding possible changes to her chemotherapy regimen. 
9. Disposition: The patient was seen by the physical therapy service shortly before discharge , and they noted that she displayed difficulty even moving from the bed to the chair , which is significantly below her baseline of being able to ambulate independently. 
As a result , after extensive discussions with her family , it was decided that the patient will be best served by going to a rehab facility for continued closed supervision of her medical problems , supervised administration of her medication regimen , continued strength training and conditioning , and also continued nutrition. 
Once the patient is able to be less dependent on outside assistance , she can be sent home with either a home health aide or visiting nurse for continued rehabilitation. 
Of note , the patient's code status was established by her outpatient oncologist as DNR/DNI. 
This was confirmed with the patient during this hospitalization. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON DISCHARGE: Vital signs: Temperature 98.3 , pulse 80 , blood pressure 104/64 , respiratory rate 20 , O2 sat 99% on room air. 
General: Alert , no acute distress , icteric sclerae , and slightly jaundiced. 
Respiratory: CTAB except for few crackles at the bases bilaterally. 
CV: Irregularly irregular S1 , S2 , 1/6 SM at the left upper sternal border , no rubs/gallops. 
Abdomen: Soft , distended ( decreased from prior ) , mildly tender to palpation diffusely , normoactive bowel sounds. 
Extremities: Warm/well perfused , nontender , 1 to 2+ pedal edema , 1 to 2+ left upper extremity edema , significantly dry/cracked skin on hands and feet. 
LABORATORY VALUES ON DISCHARGE: Sodium 137 , potassium 4.3 , bicarb 26 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose 61 , calcium 7.8 , magnesium 2.2 , WBC 15.1 with 87% polys , HCT 36.8 , platelets 101 , 000 , INR 1.6 , ALT 18 , AST 46 , alk phos 103 , T. bili 16.0 , total protein 5.8 , albumin 1.9. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Lispro sliding scale ( if blood sugar less than 135 , give 0 units subcutaneously; if blood sugar is 125 to 150 , then give 2 units subcutaneously; if blood sugar is 151 to 200 , then give 3 units subcutaneously; if blood sugar is 201 to 250 , then give 4 units subcutaneously; if blood sugar is 251 to 300 , then give 6 units subcutaneously; if blood sugar is 301 to 350 , then give 8 units subcutaneously; if blood sugar is 351 to 400 , then give 10 units subcutaneously ) , multivitamin one q.d. , Protonix 40 mg q.d. , diltiazem 60 mg t.i.d. , Aldactone 25 mg q.d. , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain , trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , Compazine 5 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. nausea , vitamin K 5 mg p.o. q.d. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to rehab in stable condition. 
PHYSICIAN FOLLOW-UP PLANS: The patient will be discharged to rehabilitation facility , where she will continue to be given supportive care for ongoing symptoms of her enteritis and hepatic failure. 
She will also receive physical therapy and nutrition to help her return to her baseline function. 
Prior to discharge from rehab , her medication regimen should be simplified as much as possible to prevent future confusion over her medications , as has happened in the past. 
On discharge from rehab , the patient should be sent home with either a visiting nurse or home health aide , as insurance permits. 
At that point , she will follow up with Dr. Zebley , her primary care physician; Dr. Toni , her outpatient oncologist; and Dr. Greigo , her outpatient cardiologist. 
eScription document: 8-6122355 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: OLDOW , TOMAS Attending: PULLUS , ROLANDE REFUGIA Dictation ID 0894575 D: 3/1/04 T: 3/1/04