201031748 | PUO | 23139147 | | 0627699 | 10/28/2003 12:00:00 AM | NECROTIZING FASCIITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/1/2003 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 9/25/2003 PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: NECROTIZING FASCIITIS. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 73-year-old female with a history of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and critical AS , who presented to the Emergency Department from her primary care A Triaded Health office presenting with a right thigh mass present x 4 days. 
The patient was unable to ambulate secondary to this abscess pain , patient with chills and fevers to 102. 
Her glucose had become difficult to control since the start of the abscess , and she presented to the Emergency Department tachycardic and hypotensive. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history includes insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , morbid obesity , critical AS , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , and anemia. 
MEDICATIONS: Her home medications include Glyburide , Metformin , hydrochlorothiazide , Protonix , Lipitor , and Zestril. 
ALLERGIES: Allergies include Penicillin. 
PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION: In the Emergency Department here at the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of , her temperature was 101.5 , her heart rate was 128 , blood pressure 103/52 , and she was breathing regularly , saturating 98% on room air. 
She was generally a mildly ill appearing obese female. 
Cardiovascularly , she was tachycardic and regular. 
She had a 2/6 systolic murmur louder on the right. 
Her lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Her abdomen was soft and obese , nontender , with audible but low bowel sounds. 
Rectal exam was trace guaiac-positive by report. 
Her extremities showed a large right thigh abscess with a boil immediately below the pannus , with positive erythema , tenderness down to the knee and up to the groin. 
There was no labial or perirectal involvement. 
LABS ON ADMISSION: BUN of 73 , creatinine of 3.8 , and a glucose of 357. 
White blood cell count of 18.4. 
EKG on admission showed sinus tachycardia , with some T wave inversion , and chest x-ray showed some mild pulmonary edema. 
The UA showed some trace blood and trace leukocyte esterase. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was taken emergently to the operating room for an incision and drainage of this abscess , which was believed to be a necrotizing fasciitis. 
Postoperatively , the patient remained intubated and was in the Surgical Intensive Care Unit. 
She was started on NeoFed for control of her blood pressure to get it to the 70s , and was receiving metoprolol and esmolol for a heart rate that had gone up to the 130s. 
She was on triple antibiotics for full coverage and treatment of her infection. 
On postoperative day 1 , the patient remained in the Intensive Care Unit. 
She was awake and appeared comfortable on fentanyl for analgesia. 
She was evaluated by A Triaded Health Cardiology. 
She continued to need Levophed for her blood pressure. 
Her cardiac enzymes and EKGs were being continuously followed for evaluation of cardiac complications. 
She continued to be on a ventilator and her diabetes was controlled with an insulin drip. 
On postoperative day 2 , Plastic Surgery was consulted and continued to follow the patient for future necessitating closure of this right thigh wound. 
On postoperative day 3 , patient remained in the Intensive Care Unit. 
Blood pressure was improving , NG tube was removed , and a diet was started. 
By postoperative day 4 , the patient was feeling well. 
She remained in the Intensive Care Unit. 
She was tolerating Percocet for pain. 
The wound appeared to have healthy tissue. 
She continued to necessitate an insulin drip. 
The cultures on the wound showed positive Enterococci and Corynebacter. 
She continued to be on vancomycin , levofloxacin , and Flagyl for these microbes. 
On postoperative day 4 , she was transferred to a regular nursing floor in stable condition. 
On the regular nursing floor , the patient continued to do well , tolerating all her diabetes meds by mouth. 
Her vital signs were stable , with blood pressures 140/70s and a heart rate ranging in the 70-75s. 
On postoperative day 8 , a VAC sponge was placed on the wound , rehab screening was initiated , and on postoperative day 9 the patient was transferred to a rehabilitation facility. 
She was in stable condition. 
She was working with Physical Therapy. 
She was tolerating a regular diet and tolerating all of her medications , with continued stable vital signs. 
Her wound showed healthy tissue and was covered with a VAC sponge , that needs to be changed every three days. 
She continues to be on triple antibiotics , and on the day of discharge she is day 9 of a 21-day course. 
Her vancomycin is dosed daily , depending on her vancomycin level , that must be drawn also daily. 
Patient is to follow up with Dr. Zufelt in one week and is to follow up with Plastic Surgery in three weeks for evaluation of closure of the wound. 
Patient is to follow up with her primary care physician and her A Triaded Health cardiologist as needed after discharge from rehab. 
Her discharge medications include vitamin C 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , heparin 5000 U subcu t.i.d. , a sliding scale of regular insulin , Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. day 9 of 21 , Percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4-6h. 
p.r.n. pain , multivitamin therapeutic with minerals one tablet p.o. q.d. , vancomycin 1 g IV q.d. dosed daily only when the daily vancomycin lab levels are less than 15 , zinc sulfate 220 mg p.o. q.d. , Maalox , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. , esomeprazole 20 mg p.o. q.d. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: DIET: House diet , ADA , 2100 calories a day. 
ACTIVITY: As tolerated , no restrictions , elevate feet for any prolonged sitting periods. 
FOLLOWUP: As previously noted , with Dr. Zufelt , Plastic Surgery , and A Triaded Health followup. 
Dictated By: FLORENCIA KLEMEN , PA Attending: DESIRAE MARCOTT , M.D. FV86  DM033/286053 Batch: 3095 Index No. QKTS8T10UE D: 5/30/03 T: 5/30/03