304719250 | PUO | 72839397 | | 8924448 | 7/24/2006 12:00:00 AM | VOMITING | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/5/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 12/10/2006 ATTENDING: STEVINSON , DEE M.D. PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN: Dr. Carletta Tetrick of MMC .  
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Vomiting and hypertension. 
OTHER PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSIS: Include diabetes , end-stage renal disease , gout , hypercholesterolemia , and primary biliary cirrhosis. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 51-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease on three times a week hemodialysis who vomited during hemodialysis on the day prior to admission. 
She completed her hemodialysis , went home , and continued to have multiple episodes of non-biliary emesis. 
She was unable to take po's including her antihypertensive medications. 
She did not report any change in appetite though she was reluctant to eat due to concerns about vomiting. 
She did not have any sick contacts. 
She did go to a barbeque over the weekend but no one else at the picnic was known to be sick. 
She does not feel feverish per se but does report some sensation of feeling heated while at dialysis , no chills. 
She has had normal bowel movements. 
She does report a cough , which is productive of clear sputum. 
No chest pain , no shortness of breath. 
She does have some abdominal pain that occurs with her vomiting and retching. 
No visual changes from baseline. 
She also reports dysuria and some increased frequency of urination on the morning of admission. 
Of note , the patient has been admitted in July of this year with a similar presentation of nausea and vomiting with increased blood pressures , which resolved with treatment for nausea and the resumption of her blood pressure medications. 
MEDICATIONS: Her medications prior to admission included regular insulin on a sliding scale , aspirin 81 mg per day , Plavix 75 mg per day , metoprolol 50 mg three times a day , nifedipine 30 mg four times a day , losartan 100 mg once a day , allopurinol 100 mg every other day , Nexium 20 mg once a day , ursodiol 300 mg once a day , and Colace twice a day. 
The patient also reports taking clonidine 0.1 mg three times a day. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Remarkable for end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis three times a week , diabetes mellitus type 2 with retinopathy and neuropathy , hypertension , coronary artery disease status post stent x4 in September 2005 , shown on repeat cardiac catheterization in October 2006 to be patent , gout , primary biliary cirrhosis , hypercholesterolemia , polymyalgia rheumatica. 
She is also status post hysterectomy and status post cataract surgery. 
ALLERGIES: Though she does not report having any drug allergies , her chart notes unspecified reactions to oral hypoglycemics and calcitriol. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She does not use tobacco and does not drink alcohol. 
She lives with relatives. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , the patient's vital signs were temperature 97.8 , heart rate 79 , blood pressure 148/79. 
Her oxygen saturation was 95% on room air. 
She was not in any acute distress. 
Her JVP was flat. 
Her mucous membranes were moist. 
She did not have cervical lymphadenopathy. 
Her lungs were clear. 
Her cardiovascular exam showed regular rate and rhythm with a loud 3/6 systolic murmur best heard at the left upper sternal border. 
Her abdomen was nontender and nondistended. 
Bowel sounds were present. 
No hepatosplenomegaly was noted on exam. 
She did not have rebound or guarding. 
She did not have lower extremity edema. 
Distal pulses were present. 
LABORATORY DATA: Pertinent labs on admission include: white blood cell count of 4 with 81% polys and hematocrit of 35.5. 
Her bilirubin was slightly elevated at 1.3. 
Her amylase was 82. 
Her lipase was 15. 
Her EKG showed sinus rhythm. 
Studies included a chest x-ray on 10/28/06 , which showed stable cardiomegaly with some interval progression in her mild interstitial edema and stable bilateral effusions. 
She had a CT of her abdomen and pelvis on 10/19/06 , which showed small bilateral pleural effusions and a small pericardial effusion , splenomegaly with a spleen measuring 16 cm. 
The liver appeared normal other than for an area of focal fat or perfusion anomaly adjacent to the falciform ligament. 
Gallstones were present. 
The stomach and the small bowel were decompressed. 
There were no findings to explain nausea or vomiting , and there was no evidence of bowel obstruction. 
The patient also had an MR angio of the abdomen on 10/19/06 , which was unremarkable. 
Splenomegaly , cholelithiasis , and a trace pericardial effusion were noted. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: This is a 51-year-old woman with a history of end-stage renal disease who presented with nausea and vomiting and hypertensive urgency likely secondary to her inability to tolerate her p.o. blood pressure medications. 
1. GI. The patient had nausea and vomiting , which was controlled with Reglan initially IV. 
She was then transitioned to p.o. She had resolution of her nausea , but the nausea returned when the Reglan was stopped , so she was maintained on a standing dose of 5 mg Reglan before meals. 
An abdominal CT was done and did not find evidence of obstruction or any other findings to explain nausea or vomiting. 
An MR angiogram of the abdomen was also done to evaluate for the possibility of vascular disease , but this exam was unremarkable. 
2. Cardiovascular. 
There was concern for demand ischemia given the patient's history of coronary artery disease and high blood pressure. 
She did have a troponin of 0.38 , which came down to 0.25 , and then was undetectable. 
With treatment for nausea , the patient was able to take her p.o. medications and her blood pressures were controlled. 
Her metoprolol dose was increased to 75 t.i.d. 3. Renal. 
The patient was continued on Monday , Wednesday , Friday hemodialysis while she was in the hospital. 
4. ID. 
The patient continued to have a low-grade temperature while she was in the hospital. 
Multiple blood cultures were drawn , which did not show any growth. 
She did have one UA , which showed bacteria but which also had epithelial cells. 
She did receive a seven-day course of antibiotics. 
She was initially started on levofloxacin , vancomycin , and Flagyl given concern for an abdominal process and then was switched and covered briefly with ceftazidine before continuing the rest of her course on levofloxacin. 
The patient was also tested for tuberculosis given her persistent fevers and her history of cough. 
She had a PPD placed on the day of discharge , which will need to be read at dialysis on 6/15/06 .  
The patient's allopurinol was discontinued due to a concern that it could be contributing to her fever. 
5. Endocrine. 
The patient was maintained on an aspart sliding scale and had modest blood glucose levels in the 100s. 
6. Rheumatic. 
The patient had persistent fevers. 
She also had a history in her chart of polymyalgia rheumatica though she was not familiar with this diagnosis. 
She had an elevated ESR of 102 and an elevated CRP of 184. 
She also had a history of hilar adenopathy seen on previous chest CT scans. 
A repeat chest CT has been ordered and is pending at the time of discharge. 
The Rheumatology Service was consulted and evaluated the patient. 
An SPEP and IPEP were ordered to rule out gammopathy , and ANA was ordered along with complement studies and antimitochondrial antibodies. 
The results of these tests are pending and the patient has been scheduled to follow up in the PUO Rheumatology Clinic the week after discharge. 
7. Consultants. 
The patient was seen by Dr. Fran Bussler of the MMC Hematology Service and by the Rheumatology Service. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT DISCHARGE: On the day of discharge , the patient was afebrile with a temperature of 97.3 , heart rate of 69 , and blood pressure of 155/77. 
Her oxygen saturation was 95% on room air. 
Her physical exam was not significantly changed. 
Her abdomen was benign. 
Her lungs were clear. 
Her heart had a regular rate and rhythm with a systolic murmur. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg daily , clonidine 0.1 mg t.i.d. , Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily , Nexium 20 mg p.o. daily , losartan 100 mg p.o. daily , Reglan 5 mg p.o. q.a.c. and h.s. , metoprolol 75 mg p.o. t.i.d. , nifedipine 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. , and ursodiol 300 mg p.o. daily. 
eScription document: 7-2459120 CSSten Tel CC: Carletta Marie Tetrick MD Sa Tope More Dictated By: HENDY , CLARETHA Attending: STEVINSON , DEE Dictation ID 2749614 D: 10/11/06 T: 9/29/06