532820630 | PUO | 23787995 | | 1808723 | 2/3/2006 12:00:00 AM | FAILURE TO THRIVE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/19/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 1/9/2006 ATTENDING: BUSSLER , FRAN M.D. PRIMARY CARE PROVIDER: Dr. Glynis Margo Verbridge Berg Community Healthcare Ge PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Metastatic gastric cancer. 
LIST OF OTHER PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES: Coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1992 followed by CABG of two vessels. 
Upper GI bleed from a gastric ulcer , anemia , GERD , hypertension , diabetes type 2 , and history of buttock cellulitis. 
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 65-year-old  male , history of CAD status post MI and CABG , upper GI bleed from gastric ulcer admitted for failure to thrive , nausea and vomiting and chronic abdominal discomfort. 
The patient most recently was admitted on 1/26/2006 for upper GI bleed from a gastric ulcer , which was cauterized on EGD during that admission , however , without any biopsy. 
Unfortunately , he was then discharged on iron supplementation , told to avoid aspirin and alcohol in set up with a followup EGD in 3 months , however , since then the patient has had persistent nausea and vomiting combined with burping and inability to tolerate p.o. , especially solids. 
His vomit has been nonbloody yellow. 
He also reports a 20 pound weight loss over the last two months. 
He describes a chronic epigastric discomfort over the time , which is more of a "hunger feeling then an acute pain". 
Denies any change in bowel movements including hematochezia although he has chronic black colored stools , which he attributes to his iron supplementation. 
He reports weight loss. 
He reported a weight loss to his PCP who sent him to the ED for further evaluation of this abdominal pain with a suspicion of GI bleeding. 
In the ED , he only had minimally guaiac positive stool , however right upper quadrant ultrasound revealed multiple hepatic lesions. 
The patient was then admitted for inability to tolerate p.o. and the concurrent workup of cancer. 
ALLERGIES: The patient has no known drug allergies. 
BRIEF ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAM: On admission , the patient had stable vital signs with a temperature of 98.1 , pulse of 57 , blood pressure 158/72 , respirating 16 with an oxygenation of 96% on room air. 
He was in no apparent distress , alert and oriented x3. 
He had a flat JVP. 
He had a sternal scar. 
He had regular rate and rhythm with a normal S1 and S2 , no murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
His lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
His abdomen was slightly obese. 
It was soft with positive bowel sounds. 
He had mild discomfort to deep palpation but no tenderness , no palpable hepatosplenomegaly but questionable dullness to percussion at the left final intercostal space in the mid axillary line. 
His extremities were without edema with good pulses. 
PERTINENT LABS: Chemistry panel was unremarkable. 
His CBC was unremarkable as well. 
He had except for low hematocrit of 31.2. 
His LFTs were unremarkable except for mildly elevated , AST at 31. 
As mentioned above , he had right upper quadrant ultrasound , which showed multiple hepatic lesions. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: GI/Onc: The patient was admitted with nausea , vomiting and inability to tolerate p.o. , along with a weight loss. 
He had an emergency room right upper quadrant ultrasound with hepatic lesions , which was highly suspicious of malignancy and he was thus admitted for inability to tolerate p.o. and a concurrent workup of his hepatic lesions for malignancy. 
He had an abdominal CT , which confirmed that there was a gastric mass and hepatic lesions with surrounding lymphadenopathy. 
He subsequently had an EGD , which revealed a fungating mass which was later confirmed on biopsy to be invasive adenocarcinoma , poorly differentiated. 
He was then referred to oncology who informed the patient of his diagnosis with his family. 
The patient decided to undergo chemotherapy with full FOX. 
He was then placed with the Port-A-Cath access on 2/2/2006 and he received his full FOX on 1/9/2006 without incident. 
Throughout he was controlled on antiemetics. 
He was continued on his outpatient dose of Nexium as before NSAIDS and aspirin were avoided. 
Heme: The patient had a stable hematocrit on admission. 
He however given his history of GI bleeding , was closely watched and was transfused for goal hematocrit above 28. 
He only received one unit of packed red blood cells on 1/30/2006 as noted. 
The patient received an EGD with biopsy of his of his lesion on 1/29/2006 .  
There was some problem with controlling his bleeding postbiopsy surgery and interventional radiology were aware of this. 
He was closely monitored for any hematocrit drop. 
Fortunately , his hematocrit remained stable and he did not require any acute intervention. 
He did receive some p.o. vitamin K intermittently for his elevated INR of 1.5. 
Musculoskeletal: The patient did complain of his spine pain. 
He says this pain however has been chronic throughout the years. 
He did have a spinal MRI , which did not show any evidence of metastatic disease or cord compression. 
It did reveal only mild degenerative joint disease. 
Cardiovascular: The patient was maintained on his home medications for his hypertension , coronary artery disease and history of MI. 
There were no acute issues during this hospital stay. 
Endocrine: For his diabetes , the patient was held off his oral hypoglycemics and put on an insulin sliding scale as well as a standing NPH insulin dose. 
For his hypercholesterolemia , he was continued on his home dose of Vytorin , which was administered as separate Zetia and Zocor. 
Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: Given his poor inability to tolerate p.o. , he was given IV fluids on admission. 
His diet was advanced to clears and intermittently he was held n.p.o. for procedures and for his episode of bleeding status post his biopsy. 
However , he was then successfully advanced on his diet. 
Nutrition was consulted and did leave recs for possible TPN administration. 
If the patient should not be able to tolerate p.o. in the long run however , he is doing well and TPN will be held off for now. 
Prophylaxis: The patient is prophylaxed on a PPI on his home dose as well as Lovenox. 
The patient is full code. 
Key features of physical exam at discharge , the patient remains in stable condition. 
His physical exam is unchanged. 
DISPOSITION AND FOLLOW UP TESTS: The patient will be discharged home with VNA as well as with an infusion pump to administer outpatient chemotherapy of 5-FU. 
The patient should follow up with his primary care provider Dr. Verbridge and as well as his oncologist , Dr. Bussler . 
He will continue on his chemotherapy protocol per Dr. Bussler . 
His p.o. intake should be monitored and he potentially should have an appointment with outpatient nutrition to evaluate whether TPN should be started or not. 
He should continue on his antiemetics , his pain control and a bowel regimen. 
eScription document: 7-8426749 HFFocus Dictated By: MARCOTT , DESIRAE Attending: BUSSLER , FRAN Dictation ID 1210522 D: 7/12/06 T: 10/17/06