205298095 | PUO | 95928029 | | 638754 | 10/21/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/7/1995 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/15/1995 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION. 
LIST OF SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS: DIABETES. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 54 year old , white male with cardiac risk factors of diabetes , borderline hypertension , male gender , and a positive family history , who has no prior cardiac history , but now presents to A Salt Medical Center complaining of substernal chest pain. 
Approximately six weeks ago , the patient lifted a 100-pound bag and the next a.m. , noted substernal chest pressure without associated symptoms. 
This pressure lasted approximately three to five minutes and resolved spontaneously. 
Since then , the patient has had two similar episodes of substernal chest pressure that have occurred while he was exerting himself , once while running during a basketball game and once again while running on the beach in Ing Lum Sey Neither episode had associated symptoms ( i.e. , radiation , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , palpitations ) , and both episodes lasted less than five minutes and resolved with rest. 
On the night prior to admission , the patient was working regripping his golf clubs and noted a pulling sensation into his chest , which again resolved with rest. 
On the morning of admission , the patient awoke at 4:00 a.m. , noting a 6-7/10 substernal chest pressure associated with diaphoresis. 
The pain persisted for five hours , at which time the patient presented to CHH .  
At CHH , the patient was found to have a blood pressure of 152/88 and a heart rate of 76. 
His physical examination was benign. 
However , the patient's electrocardiogram showed new ST depressions in V2-V5 , T wave inversions in AVL , and flat T's in 1 and V6. 
The patient was treated with two sublingual nitroglycerins and sent to the Pagham University Of .  
On route to Petersram Medical Center , the patient received two sublingual nitroglycerin sprays. 
On arrival , the patient's pain had dwindled to 1/10 , without associated symptoms. 
The patient's blood pressure was 126/80 , with a heart rate of 80. 
The patient was treated with an aspirin , a sublingual nitroglycerin , nitro paste , Lopressor 5 mg x 1 intravenously , and intravenous heparin. 
Upon transfer to the CCU , the patient was pain free. 
A repeat electrocardiogram demonstrated resolution of ST depressions and flat T waves , but persistence of the T wave inversion in AVL. 
The patient was admitted for further treatment and to rule out myocardial infarction. 
The patient gives no history of edema , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , or orthopnea. 
The patient denies fevers , upper respiratory infection symptoms , cough , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , dysuria , or weight loss. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history is significant for diabetes. 
The patient has kidney stones , is status post procedure three to four years ago , and a history of sinusitis. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: The patient's medications at the time of admission included only Glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is unmarried. 
He was the part owner of a bar. 
He does not smoke , and he does not drink. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is a pleasant , tan male in no acute distress. 
Blood pressure , 126/80. 
Heart rate , 80. Respiratory rate , 20. Temperature , 98. Oxygen saturation , 100% on two liters. 
Head , eyes , ears , nose , and throat examination was anicteric , with oropharynx benign. 
Neck was supple , with no lymphadenopathy. 
Carotids were 2+ , with no bruits. 
Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Back examination demonstrated no costovertebral angle tenderness and no spinal tenderness. 
Coronary examination revealed a regular rate and rhythm , distant S1 and S2 , and no murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
Abdominal examination was benign. 
Rectal examination showed guaiac negative stool. 
Extremities showed no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema , with pulses 2+ throughout , and no femoral bruits. 
Neurologic examination revealed the patient to be alert and oriented x 3. LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory studies on admission revealed the patient's electrolytes to be within normal limits , except for a glucose of 293. 
The first CK returned 970 , with an MB fraction of 65.1. 
Magnesium was 1.6. 
CBC was within normal limits , with a hematocrit of 44.1. 
Coag's were also normal at 12.7 and 27.4. 
Chest x-ray showed no enlarged heart and no infiltrate. 
Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm , with a rate of 60 , and no ST-T changes on the 15 of August , 1995. 
However , electrocardiogram at the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of , pain free , showed normal sinus rhythm , with a heart rate of 82 , T wave inversions , AVL , and flat T's in lead 1. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted with a diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction. 
Electrocardiogram changes were consistent with lateral or anterolateral ischemia. 
His peak CK's returned at 1 , 330 , with 54.5% MB fractions. 
The patient was maintained on heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin for 72 hours after admission and was started on Lopressor and enteric-coated aspirin at admission. 
The patient remained chest pain free for the five days post myocardial infarction and underwent a submax ETT on the 5 of August , 1995. 
In addition , an electrocardiogram was performed , which showed a left ventricle with 73% ejection fraction , upper limits of normal size , and a question of inferior wall hypokinesis. 
On the 24 of June , the patient underwent a submax ETT , which was stopped secondary to chest tightness , with diagnostic electrocardiogram changes , maximal heart rate of 96 , blood pressure of 145/82 , electrocardiogram with 2 mm ST depressions , persisting into recovery. 
Because of a positive ETT , the patient subsequently underwent cardiac catheterization , which showed a proximal left circ lesion 70% stenosed , which was percutaneous transhepatic coronary angioplastied to 20% residual , as well as a mid-left circ lesion 70% stenosed , which was percutaneous transhepatic coronary angioplastied to a 30% residual. 
The left anterior descending was found to be diffusely diseased , without focal stenoses , and the proximal right coronary artery showed a 60% shelf-like lesion. 
The patient did not experience chest pain or shortness of breath during the procedure. 
Post cardiac catheterization/percutaneous transhepatic coronary angioplasty , the patient was maintained on his glipizide and atenolol , 50 mg p.o. q.d. , and enteric-coated aspirin , as well as heparin overnight. 
Two days after the cardiac catheterization , the patient underwent a second submax ETT. 
This he performed without chest discomfort or electrocardiogram changes. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home on the 16 of September .  
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient's condition at the time of discharge was stable. 
DISCHARGE PLAN: The patient will receive diabetic teaching as an outpatient with CHH and will follow up with Dr. Theiling . 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , sublingual nitroglycerins p.r.n. chest pain , and Glucotrol 5 mg p.o. q.d. 
Dictated By: MYRTIS VANTULL , M.D. Attending: BREE M. THEILING , M.D. GP8  AO528/7048 Batch: 9021 Index No. VDTEQY1WXY D: 10/8/95 T: 6/17/95