744245208 | PUO | 95260896 | | 4536848 | 10/26/2006 12:00:00 AM | PNEUMONIA | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 10/11/2006 Report Status: Unsigned 

Discharge Date: 7/25/2006 ATTENDING: BRASKETT , TISA M.D. SERVICE: General Medicine Service Chat Ville Monttul PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Methicillin sensitive Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. 
OTHER PROBLEMS AND CONDITIONS TREATED: LGL NKA lymphoma with pancytopenia , type II diabetes , hypertension , chronic renal insufficiency , genital herpes , PICC line infection , nonsustained ventricular tachycardia. 
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Morelen is an 88-year-old Italian-speaking female with a history of large granulocytic lymphocyte lymphoma complicated by pancytopenia with chronic transfusion requirement. 
She also has a history of type II diabetes , chronic renal insufficiency , and a recent herpes infection undergoing treatment with famciclovir who presented with fever , chills , cough , and decreased p.o. intake from her nursing home with moderate hypotension to systolic pressures of 80 at the nursing home as well as oxygen saturation of 91% and on admission was found to have fever without neutropenia later diagnosed with an MSSA bacteremia and a component of acute on chronic renal failure. 
ALLERGIES: Fentanyl which caused GI intolerance , lisinopril which causes cough , morphine which causes vomiting and Percocet which causes nausea and vomiting. 
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature of 98.4 , a pulse of 100 , a BP of 143/64 with a respiratory rate of 20 with a O2 saturation of 100% on 3 liters. 
This is post 4 liters of IV fluids and six packs of platelets in the emergency department at which point she had presented with a fever to 101 with a initial systolic pressure of 146 over a diastolic of 91 that had dropped to 100 systolic. 
In the ED , she also received vancomycin , levofloxacin , Flagyl , and ceftazidime as well her PICC line which is present in the right upper extremity was pulled. 
A physical examination on admission was significant for tachycardia with an otherwise normal cardiac exam without murmurs. 
Her respiratory exam showed decreased air movement bilaterally with expiratory wheezes , however , no evidence of focal decrease in breath sounds. 
The abdominal exam was benign and the extremities showed erythema and induration at the right former PICC site. 
ADMISSION LABORATORY: Significant for sodium of 131 , potassium of 4.9 , bicarbonate of 20 , BUN and creatinine of 63/2.9 up from her baseline of 2. Her white blood cell count on admission was 4.5 with a hematocrit of 23.7 and platelets of 20. Urinalysis showed 3+ protein , 1+ blood , 1+ bacteria and 2-4 white blood cells. 
An admission troponin was drawn and that was less than assay. 
Her EKG showed a sinus tachycardia with poor R-wave progression and T-wave flattening in III and AVF. 
The chest x-ray was performed on admission that showed right-sided subsegmental basilar atelectasis with low lung volumes and a large cardiac silhouette , but no definitive infiltrate or fusion. 
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: 1/26/06: PICC line placement in the left upper extremity. 
1/26/06: CAT scan of the chest. 
2/3/06: Right upper extremity Doppler ultrasound and chest x-rays were performed on 6/20/06 , 03 .  
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: ID: Based on blood culture results the patient had an MSSA bacteremia. 
She was initially treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics in the emergency department , however , this regimen was tapered to initially include vancomycin as a single agent and then further tapered to naphthalene but this was also tapered finally to a regimen of Ancef dosed at 0.5 g IV q. 12h. 
Her last positive blood culture was on 2/10/06 and the Ancef should be continued for 14 days thereafter setting an end date of approximately 5/2/06 .  
She completed her course of famciclovir during hospitalization and had no further evidence of genital herpetic infection as well the urine culture and urinalysis data described above showed yeast only and a Foley that had been intermittently placed during the ED stay was discontinued , and the patient remained asymptomatic for any further urinary tract infection. 
Cardiovascular: Although the patient initially had transient hypertension believed to be secondary to infection and mild hypovolemia in the setting of diuretics and poor p.o. intake prior to coming in. 
She was electively fluid resuscitated and actually went into mild hypervolemia as evidenced by chest x-ray findings consistent with pulmonary edema initially. 
She was thereafter diuresed as needed. 
During her hospitalization as her hemodynamic status stabilized her home blood pressure regimen was reinstated. 
However , the following substitutions were made. 
The hydrochlorothiazide was substituted with Lasix as her chronic renal insufficiency dictated as well as her doxazosin dose was increased from 2 mg per day to 4 mg per day for better blood pressure control. 
Her metoprolol dose , which was initially 100 mg twice a day was changed the 62.5 mg four times daily , which can be converted as her blood pressure normalizes. 
Captopril and ARBs were not used due to her history of allergies but additional antihypertensive medications may be indicated if her pressure remains elevated. 
During the hospitalization , she had evidence of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia asymptomatic on telemetry , however , with alteration of the dose of Lopressor there was no further evidence of this. 
At the time of discharge , she was euvolemic from a pulmonary standpoint with mild lower extremity edema. 
He discharge weight is 71.1 kilograms and her daily weights should be followed and the Lasix titrated to remain euvolemic. 
There was no evidence of ischemia during the hospitalization. 
Pulmonary: Although she presented with some shortness of breath and cough she did not continue to have any shortness of breath or cough during the hospitalization. 
Due to complaints of right posterior rib pain during the hospitalization without evidence of any skin or soft tissue abnormalities she underwent a CT scan of the chest on 5/5/06 , which showed a small right middle lobe area of consolidation favoring atelectasis but not impossible to represent an early pneumonia. 
They also had tiny pleural effusions bilaterally as well as a tiny pericardial effusion , a small calcified right apical node , and an enlarged left thyroid lobe with extension below the sternum. 
There was no evidence of rib fracture or soft tissue abnormality on this CAT scan in the area of concern. 
The pain caused by this symptom , which is still unclear was treated with Lidoderm patch as well as Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 6h. standing with only modest relief. 
Other medications including other narcotics and NSAIDS were not used given her history of allergies as well as her thrombocytopenia. 
However , these can be further evaluated in the outpatient setting. 
Hematology/oncology: The patient has a history of LGL NK lymphoma. 
There is no inpatient treatment for this disease; however , she received transfusions of packed red blood cells for her hematocrit less than 22 and platelet scales were set as 10. 
She also received GCSF during her hospitalization and should receive her Neulasta in the outpatient setting. 
Prior to discharge a left upper extremity PICC line was placed on 5/5/06 and confirmed on chest x-ray with its tip projecting over the superior vena cava. 
Renal: The patient has a history of chronic renal insufficiency with a component of acute renal failure at the time of admission as her baseline creatinine increased from 2 to 2.9 , however , her creatinine returned to her baseline with IV hydration initially and has remained at 1.9-2 stably prior to discharge. 
Endocrine: This patient has a history of type II diabetes initially managed on Glucotrol in the outpatient setting. 
She was placed on NPH twice daily in the hospital and will be discharged on 10 units twice daily with a insulin aspartate sliding scale prior to meals. 
Her blood glucose is not optimally controlled but more aggressive attempts to control her glucose resulted in symptomatic hypoglycemia , therefore it was felt best to air on the side of mildly elevated blood glucoses in the range of 150 to the low 200s in order to avoid transient hypoglycemia. 
The incidental finding of the left thyroid lobe enlargement on the CT of the chest should be evaluated in the outpatient setting and this may be done in collaboration with the endocrine service , however , the projection to the retrosternal space may preclude most evaluation. 
The patient was followed by physical therapy during the hospitalization and will continue to have physical therapy in the outpatient setting. 
There were no complications during the hospitalization. 
Her physical examination at the time of discharge reveals a temperature of 97.2 , heart rate of 71-93 , a blood pressure of 130-150/57-80 , respiratory rate 20 , O2 saturation of 96%-99% on room air with a lung exam showing minimal bibasilar crackles. 
A cardiac exam with regular rate and rhythm , S1 , S2 , no murmurs and abdominal exam showing obese abdomen with ventral hernia but otherwise benign and lower extremities with 1+ edema and nontender. 
A PICC line in the left upper extremity and no erythema in the right upper extremity , however , resolving induration and minimal tenderness. 
Her fingerstick glucose on the a.m. of discharge was 91. 
Her discharge labs show a potassium of 4.2 , sodium of 136 , creatinine of 2 , magnesium of 1.7 , which is repleted. 
A white blood cell count of 1 , hematocrit of 22.5 , platelets of 13 with 1% polys , 86% lymphs , and 4% monocytes. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg by mouth every six hours. 
This should be continued standing until her right chest wall pain diminishes , Ben-Gay topical apply twice daily to back/right flank as directed , Ancef 0.5 g IV q. 12h. 
should be continued until 5/2/06 , Colace 100 mg by mouth twice daily , Lasix 40 mg by mouth daily , insulin NPH 10 units subcutaneous b.i.d. , milk of magnesia 30 ml by mouth daily as needed for constipation , Lopressor 62.5 mg by mouth four times daily , doxazosin 4 mg by mouth daily , Lidoderm 5% patch may be applied daily as needed for pain and it must have a 12 off period during the application , insulin aspartate sliding scale pre-meal , Maalox tablets , Spectazole one to two tablets by mouth every six hours as needed for upset stomach and Protonix 40 mg by mouth daily. 
She will be discharged to the Con Field E and the final results of the CT of the chest should be followed up. 
Dr. Gaylene Faniel , her primary oncologist , has been notified of her discharge and will continue to follow her in the outpatient setting. 
The patient is full code and her healthcare proxy is Chantal Morelen , her son , at 031-118-2685. 
eScription document: 9-3593046 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: IBRAHIM , MIYOKO Attending: BRASKETT , TISA Dictation ID 7718753 D: 3/25/06 T: 3/25/06