758176852 | PUO | 71816968 | | 340316 | 10/13/1998 12:00:00 AM | DEGENERATIVE JOINT DISEASE RT. KNEE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/16/1998 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 3/11/1998 ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: OSTEOARTHRITIS , RIGHT KNEE. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 70 year-old gentleman who has had bilateral knee pain for a number of years. 
The pain has been worse on the right than the left. 
His symptoms have limited his ambulation and his ability to climb stairs. 
He was seen preoperatively for evaluations and had two units of autologous blood available prior to a planned right total knee replacement. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for osteoarthritis of his knees , hypertension , benign , tachycardia , history of prostate cancer in 1991 , history of diverticulitis and history of sleep apnea. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Significant for status post radical prostatectomy in 1991 , status post left retinal repair in 1990 and status post cystoscopy in the 1970s for benign bladder polyps. 
ALLERGIES: The patient had no known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1 ) Hyzaar 50/125 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 ) Lopressor 50 mg one p.o. q. AM. 3 ) Lopressor 25 mg one p.o. q.h.s. 4 ) Norpace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. 5 ) Lodine q. day. 
6 ) Clonazepam 0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 7 ) Nasocort sprays , two sprays q. day. 
8 ) Zyrtec 10 mg p.o. q. day. 
9 ) Multivitamins. 10 ) Aspirin one p.o. q.o.d. 11 ) Vitamin E. 12 ) Vitamin C. SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient quit smoking twenty years ago. 
He drinks a glass of wine q. day. 
The patient is married and resides in Tinorf O Southaperv , Massachusetts 65928 The plan after discharge was to discharge to home. 
His occupation is an attorney in private practice. 
DIET: No added salt and low fat. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Significant for wearing glasses and some visual deficits in the left eye secondary to the retinal tear. 
Neurologically , the patient has a history of osteoarthritis of his cervical spine and intermittent numbness of the hands. 
Pulmonary-wise , the patient has a history of sleep apnea and uses a C-PAP machine. 
Cardiovascularly , the patient has a history of hypertension , tachycardia , but no history of coronary artery disease , myocardial infarction , chest pain , congestive heart failure or deep venous thrombosis. 
Gastrointestinal-wise , the patient has a history of diverticulitis and was hospitalized in the 70s. 
He has a history of polyps that were negative on colonoscopy three years ago. 
Genitourinary-wise , the patient has a history of stress incontinence and impotence. 
Musculoskeletal-wise , he has a history of osteoarthritis. 
His primary care physician was Dr. Alyse Holda . 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs: Blood pressure 150/88 , heart rate 60 , height 5'8" , weight 240 lbs. 
HEENT showed a normal pharynx with no carotid bruits. 
Extraocular movements are intact. 
His lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
His heart was regular rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2 and no murmur. 
His abdomen was obese , but soft and non-tender with no evidence of organomegaly and some well healed previous surgical incisions. 
Neurologically , his cranial nerves were intact. 
On physical examination , he was seen to have bilateral genu varus. 
The right was greater than the left. 
He had active range of motion of the right knee from 0 degrees to 90 degrees. 
He was stable with varus and valgus stress. 
He had 1+ dorsalis pedis pulse and posterior tibial pulses and no edema. 
He was neurovascularly intact except for mild diminution of sensation on the dorsum of the right foot and medial right ankle. 
He was instructed to discontinue taking NSAIDS and aspirin prior to his surgery and given a single dose of Coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. on the night prior to his surgery. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: On August , 1998 , the patient was admitted to the hospital where he underwent right total knee arthroplasty. 
Tourniquet time for the initial procedure was 86 minutes. 
He received perioperative antibiotics. 
He was started on Coumadin in the postoperative period as well and put on the total knee pathway postoperatively. 
He received epidural anesthesia in the perioperative period. 
He was followed by the Pain Service for control of his pain. 
The Cardiology Service saw him on postoperative day number one and noted that he was doing well with no intraoperative events. 
The Physical Therapy Department saw the patient postoperatively and he was placed on the CPM machine. 
By postoperative day number three , the patient was more comfortable. 
He was getting out of bed for his meals. 
His hematocrit was stable after initially receiving some autologous blood transfusions. 
He had postoperative x-rays of his knees taken. 
These were reviewed by the attending surgeon , Dr. Gaylene Faniel . 
Plans were made for him to be discharged to home on postoperative day number four with VNA services. 
An attempt was made for the patient to be seen by Dr. Brannigan for some complaints of foot pain , Dr. Moczygemba for complaints of shoulder pain and Dr. Wimpey for some complaints of cervical spine problems. 
At the time of this dictation , it was not certain whether these consults would be completed prior to this patient's ultimate discharge home , but if not , they will be done on an outpatient basis. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1 ) Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.o.d. 2 ) Clonazepam 0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 3 ) Norpace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. 4 ) Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5 ) Iron sulfate 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. 6 ) Lopressor 50 mg p.o. q. AM and 25 mg p.o. q. PM. 7 ) Multivitamins one tablet p.o. q. day. 
8 ) Coumadin to keep the PT/INR between 1.5 and 2.0. 
9 ) Nasocort 2 puffs inhalation q. day. 
10 ) Zyrtec 10 mg p.o. q. day. 
11 ) Hyzaar one tablet p.o. b.i.d. 12 ) Tylenol p.r.n. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home with VNA services. 
He should continue exercises for improved range of motion. 
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will be followed up by Dr. Gaylene Faniel as an outpatient in ten to fourteen days from discharge. 
VNA services will draw PT/INRs two times per week and these results will be sent to the patient's primary care physician who will follow them for Dr. Gaylene Faniel . 
The duration of Coumadinization should be six weeks. 
ACTIVITY: The patient is weight bearing as tolerated on the right lower extremity. 
COMPLICATIONS: There were no complications: Dictated By: Attending: GAYLENE FANIEL , M.D. FB.T HQ33  JO674/8915 Batch: 7546 Index No. CJBFCBF85 D: 1/8/98 T: 1/8/98