756711765 | PUO | 25805132 | | 5964582 | 7/27/2005 12:00:00 AM | PREGNANCY , LABOR | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/16/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 1/14/2005 ATTENDING: CONCILIO , GERALDO MD ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: Diabetes management and teaching. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Diabetes management and teaching. 
ID/CHIEF COMPLAINT: Ms. Wakenight is a 32-year-old G6P2-0-3-2 at 22-6/7 weeks' gestational age admitted for blood sugar control after first prenatal visit in Special OB Clinic. 
Her dating is by her last menstrual period , which was 9/26/05 , giving her an estimated date of confinement of 2/27/05 .  
An ultrasound at 14 weeks done during an ER admission for vaginal bleeding confirmed her gestational age. 
Prenatal screen were not known at the time of admission. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT PREGNANCY: Ms. Wakenight had been scheduled to see a midwife at Co Birm Na but had been unable to keep appointment. 
Her pregnancy thus far has been notable for: 1. 
Late prenatal care. 
2. Hypertension. 
She has had blood pressures that were 140's/90's several months prior to pregnancy. 
Her blood pressure in clinic on the day of admission was 139/79. 
3. Diabetes , likely type 2 , class B diabetic. 
Predates pregnancy , per the patient her blood sugars prior to pregnancy ranged from the 120-180 range and that she reports she has never needed to take insulin. 
She had a visit at Rich Ba South and was given a glucometer and known fasting sugars ranged from the 90s-140s and one hour postprandials ranged from 140-230. 
4. She is a smoker. 
5. History of depression. 
She currently takes Remeron and is followed by her outpatient psychiatrist with whom she has had a longstanding relationship. 
Given that the Remeron was a class C medication , she was discontinued on that. 
HER PAST OB HISTORY: She had three prior first trimester TABs and two priors spontaneous vaginal deliveries. 
Her largest baby was 7 pounds 12 ounces. 
GYN HISTORY: She has a history of high-grade SIL , status post colpo with biopsies. 
Her last Pap was a year ago and within normal limits. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Also , notable for a history of renal stones and migraine headaches. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: She had laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
MEDICATIONS: Her only medication is Remeron. 
ALLERGIES: She has no known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She smokes approximately seven cigarettes daily. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Her blood pressure is 139/79. 
She is well appearing. 
Her heart was regular rate and rhythm. 
Her lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Her abdomen was soft and obese. 
It is difficult to assess fundal height. 
Pelvic exam had normal mucosa , normal cervix. 
Bimanual exam revealed approximately 22 weeks size uterus with audible fetal heart tones. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Diabetes: Given the late time in the day of her appointment and the inability to establish proper diabetic teaching as an outpatient , she was admitted for diabetic teaching and control. 
She had never previously used medications and has had reportedly poor control with diet. 
Risks of diabetes were discussed. 
She was started on a regimen of 14 of N q.a.m. and 14 of N at bedtime with 6 of Humalog premeal as per Dr. Bloomingdale . 
Her sugars overnight while in-house were as follows: 100 fasting , 175 approximately two hours postprandial , 157 and then a fasting of 94 this is while receiving that stated insulin regimen. 
She was seen by the Diabetes Management Service and Dr. Fuente on 5/10/05 who recommended increasing her prebreakfast and predinner Humalog to 8. She will need an Ophthalmology consult as an outpatient. 
Hemoglobin A1c was sent and was 5.3. 
2. Hypertension: Given her elevated blood pressure of 139/79 in clinic and her history that was notable for potentially a longstanding hypertension , her blood pressure was monitored closely and baseline preeclampsia labs were sent. 
Her blood pressure overnight was within normal limits with values this morning of 108/60 seated and 90/50 lying. 
She had a normal BUN , creatinine , ALT , AST , and uric acid. 
A 24-hour urine protein was completed during this hospitalization and the results are pending at the time of this dictation. 
3. History of depression: Her Remeron was discontinued and I discussed her symptoms of depression with her in greater detail. 
She said that she primarily uses Remeron as a sleep aid and the major side effect she experiences with withdrawal of Remeron is nightmares. 
She does not feel as if she has a problem with depression and declined a psychiatry consultation while in the hospital. 
She has an outpatient psychiatrist whom she has a longstanding relationship with. 
I advised to discuss her pregnancy with her psychiatrist and to be in contact should she have any concerns. 
She reported that she always knows if she needs additional help and will be in contact with her doctor. 
4. Fetal well-being: Baseline and prenatal laboratories were sent on 4/19/05 .  
Her blood type is B positive. 
Her antibody screen was negative. 
Her RPR was nonreactive. 
Her hepatitis B surface antigen is negative , rubella immune , gonorrhea and chlamydia are negative. 
She had an ultrasound done on the 5/10/05 which revealed a singleton intrauterine gestation. 
Her placenta was posterior and not previa. 
She had normal Dopplers and normal fetal survey. 
The fetal risks of uncontrolled diabetes were discussed and she expressed that she understood all of these concerns. 
5. Cardiac. 
A baseline EKG was obtained which revealed normal sinus rhythm , normal axis , normal rate , however , her QT-interval was slightly prolonged at 491 msec. 
The upper limit of normal in women is 460. 
I briefly discussed this finding with the Medicine Consult Service and Cardiology Service who felt that this is likely attributable to her low potassium of 3.2. 
Therefore , high content potassium foods were encouraged and she will have a repeat EKG at her prenatal visit next week to evaluate for resolution of this prolonged QT. 
Of note , she reports that her mother had a congenital heart condition and experienced her first heart attack at the age of 27 due to what she thought was an enlarged heart. 
Her mother ultimately died at the age of 56 from a heart attack. 
She reports aside from her mom who she does feel had this condition since birth; no one in her family has experienced sudden cardiac death. 
She also has never experienced palpitations or chest pain. 
6. History of kidney stones. 
A urinalysis was sent which revealed 1-5 red blood cells and the urine culture showed 10 , 000 of mixed flora. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: Given Ms. Silmon strong desire to be discharged after only a day of admission , she was discharged to home with the following instructions: She is to take her fingerstick blood sugars fasting and at one hour postprandial intervals and record them prior to her follow-up appointment. 
She is also instructed to eat foods high in potassium and to call the office in an urgent manner should she develop chest pain or palpitations. 
She has appointments scheduled for 6/6/04 with Dr. Sovie in special OB Clinic , Dr. Bloomingdale in Endocrine Clinic and Nutrition. 
She was given prescriptions for NPH to take 14 units subcu a.m. and 14 units subcu at bedtime and Humalog 8 units prebreakfast , 6 units prelunch , and 8 units predinner. 
She is also advised to take prenatal vitamins one tablet p.o. daily. 
She understands all these follow up plans and has no concerns with her discharge at this time. 
eScription document: 3-6608463 EMS Dictated By: CISTRUNK , EDGARDO Attending: CONCILIO , GERALDO Dictation ID 0308392 D: 5/10/05 T: 5/10/05