353016536 | PUO | 48115317 | | 3580457 | 10/21/2007 12:00:00 AM | pulmonary fibrosis | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/22/2007 Report Status: Unsigned 

Discharge Date: 8/5/2007 ATTENDING: COLLICA , CHANELLE XOCHITL M.D. PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Diabetes. 
ADDITIONAL DIAGNOSES: Cirrhosis and IPF. 
SERVICES: GMS No HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 76-year-old female with a history of IPF , on home oxygen at 3 l nasal cannula at baseline , cryptogenic cirrhosis , and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus who was recently admitted from 9/10/07 through 4/28/07 for hyperglycemia and volume overload , who presented with hyperglycemia and weight gain. 
Of note , during the patient's previous admission , she was diagnosed with a urinary tract infection as well as spontaneous bacterial peritonitis based on a diagnostic paracentesis , which showed greater than 250 neutrophils. 
During that admission , the patient was treated for a urinary tract infection and the SBP and was sent home on a course of oral cefpodoxime. 
Of note , during that previous admission , the patient was also hyperglycemic and was discharged on an insulin regimen of Lantus 90 with good aspartate sliding scale. 
At home , the patient's blood pressures were in the 200 to 300s and at times even higher. 
Over the week prior to admission , it was noted that the patient gained somewhere from about 8 to 10 pounds with increasing abdominal girth and lower extremity edema. 
As noted above , the patient's fingersticks were noted to be elevated in the 300s and so her Lantus was titrated from 90 units daily to 100 units by the visiting nurse. 
The patient was previously discharged on Lasix 40 mg twice daily , which was titrated up to 80 mg twice daily also by the visiting nurse and her primary care physician. 
The patient had no additional shortness of breath , and her oxygen sat was unchanged on her home dose of O2. 
She had no chest pain , no cough , and no fevers. 
No nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea. 
The patient had finished a 7-day course of cefpodoxime on the day of admission. 
The patient's mental status was unchanged as felt by the daughter. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , on 3 L home O2. 2. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. 
3. Cryptogenic cirrhosis complicated by ascites and esophageal varices as well as possible hepatic encephalopathy. 
4. Hypertension. 5. Status post cholecystectomy. 
MEDICATIONS AT HOME: 1. Fosamax 35 mg p.o. weekly. 
2. Caltrate 600 mg plus D 1 tabler daily. 
3. Cefpodoxime 200 mg daily , which was completed the day prior to admission. 
4. Clotrimazole troche orally four times daily. 
5. Dexamethasone 1 mg p.o. t.i.d. 6. Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. 7. Lantus 100 units subcutaneously every morning. 
8. Combivent 2 puffs inhaled 4 times daily. 
9. Lisinopril 20 mg daily. 
10. 
Nadolol 10 mg p.o. daily. 
11. 
Prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily. 
11. 
Bactrim DS 1 tablet p.o. daily. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her daughter , Amadon , who is her healthcare proxy and can be reached at 991-279-1860. 
The patient has never drunk alcohol , smoked , and never used any illicit drugs. 
The patient is originally from O and irish-speaking. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: VITAL SIGNS: The patient was afebrile. 
Temperature was 96.9 , heart rate was 62 , and blood pressure was 90/50. 
She was breathing 16 times and was saturating 99% on her home baseline dose of oxygen at 3 L. HEENT: Notable for tongue that showed thrush. 
NECK: JVP was difficult to asses but thought to be slightly elevated. 
There was no lymphadenopathy. 
LUNGS: Dry inspiratory crackles at both bases. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: The patient has slow heart rate with normal S1 and S2. No murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
ABDOMEN: Slightly distended , soft , and nontender with no guarding and positive bowel sounds. 
EXTREMITIES: Remarkable for 3+ edema , pitted , to the knees. 
NEUROLOGIC: No asterixis and no focal deficits. 
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Electrolytes were remarkable for BUN and creatinine of 65/1.6 as well as a potassium of 6.0. 
Albumin was noted to be 2.6. 
CBC showed a white count of 8.51 , hematocrit of 34.7 , and platelets of 92 with less than 5% bands. 
STUDIES: EKG reveals sinus bradycardia at 50 beats per minute with normal axis and normal intervals and nonspecific ST abnormalities , unchanged from prior EKGs. 
A chest x-ray showed unchanged coarse bilateral opacities with no acute process. 
IMPRESSION: The patient is a 76-year-old female with history of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and cryptogenic cirrhosis complicated by ascites and esophageal varices , who was admitted with hyperglycemia and volume overload. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Endocrine: The patient was admitted with hyperglycemia and sugar in the 600s. 
The patient was initially started on insulin drip at 4 units per hour , and her sugars quickly normalized. 
The patient was transitioned over to subcutaneous insulin regimen that included Lantus and q.a.c. aspartate as well as sliding scale. 
The patient's fingersticks remained labile throughout this admission and at times were elevated in the 300s and other times were normal in the range of 70 to 90. 
The patient's insulin was titrated , and she was discharged on a regimen that included Lantus 90 units subcutaneously daily as well as aspartate 28 units subcutaneously before each meal. 
It was noticed that the patient had the most difficulty with postprandial sugars often after lunch and dinner. 
Therefore , we recommended that if she continues to have hyperglycemia , that it would be best to titrate the q.a.c. aspartate. 
It would be best to avoid titrating the Lantus too much given that her fasting sugar in the morning was often normal. 
The patient had no hypoglycemic episodes during this admission. 
Of note , the patient was not previously on q.a.c. insulin dosing at home; however , following discharge from rehabilitation , it was thought that this would not likely be the best regimen for her. 
This was discussed with the patient's family and caregivers who were amenable to this idea , however , will likely need further teaching. 
2. GI: The patient has a history of cryptogenic cirrhosis complicated by ascites and esophageal varices. 
The patient was thought to be grossly volume overloaded due to her cirrhosis and hypoalbuminemia on admission. 
The patient was initially diuresed with IV Lasix with good results. 
The patient did have a bump in her creatinine due to this aggressive diuresis and her Lasix was held for several days , but her oral Lasix was restarted prior to discharge. 
The patient was discharged on 60 mg of p.o. Lasix twice daily. 
The patient on admission was thought to have significant amount of ascites based on abdominal exam. 
The patient had recently completed a course of treatment for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and had no abdominal tenderness but did have distention. 
An abdominal ultrasound was obtained as a diagnostic paracentesis was considered given that the patient had an episode of confusion; however , abdominal ultrasound revealed only a small lot of ascites that was not amenable to paracentesis. 
The patient has a history of esophageal varices and was continued on her nadolol for prophylaxis. 
The patient was continued on her Bactrim for SBP prophylaxis. 
The patient did have an episode of confusion and delirium during this admission , which was felt to be likely due to hepatic encephalopathy. 
The patient's delirium improved with the initiation of lactulose. 
The patient was discharged on lactulose 30 mL q.i.d. , which we titrated so that the patient has at least 3 bowel movements daily. 
At the time of discharge , the patient was alert and oriented. 
Of note , the patient was not started on Aldactone for management of her volume overload given that she was admitted with hyperkalemia and has a history of elevated potassium. 
3. Neurologic: The patient had had one episode of delirium during this admission where she was confused , did not know where she was , and was not interacting with her family appropriately. 
The patient had a workup at that time , which included an infectious workup , which revealed no evidence of infection. 
The patient was started on lactulose , which had to be an administered initially by retention enema as she was refusing to take p.o. The patient's mental status improved within 24 hours of starting the lactulose , and she was continued on this regimen and will be discharged on it. 
Of note , the patient had no asterixis on discharge. 
4. Renal: The patient has a history of chronic kidney disease with a baseline creatinine of 1.3 to 1.7. 
The patient was admitted with a creatinine of 1.6 , which did increase slightly with increased diuresis. 
The patient's Lasix was held for a day or two and then she was restarted on her oral home Lasix regimen , which was titrated to 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
Of note , the patient's lisinopril was held on admission due to hyperkalemia. 
The lisinopril was not restarted prior to discharge given the patient's history of hyperkalemia and several episodes during this admission , which required the administration of Kayexalate. 
The patient likely should be on an ACE inhibitor for chronic kidney disease , but this can be re-added as an outpatient with very close monitoring of her potassium as this was felt to be indicated by the patient's primary care physician. 
Of note , the patient was normotensive off lisinopril during this admission. 
5. Pulmonary: The patient has history of IPF and had no acute pulmonary issues during this admission. 
The patient was saturating well on her home dose of O2 throughout the entire admission. 
The patient was continued on her home dose of dexamethasone for IPF. 6. Infectious Disease: Prior to discharge , the patient was incidentally noted to have a urine culture that was growing greater than 100 , 000 colonies. 
The patient was afebrile and had no symptoms of dysuria but did have a mildly elevated white count of 11 , 000. 
Based on the patient's recent UTI , she was started on cefpodoxime for a short 5-day course. 
Results of this urine culture will need to be followed up and her antibiotics adjusted as necessary. 
The patient was continued on her Bactrim for both SPEP and PCP prophylaxis. 
CODE STATUS: The patient was full code throughout this entire admission. 
PHYSICAL EXAM AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE: The patient home was afebrile and normotensive with the heart rate in the 60s to 70s and was saturating in the high 90s on her baseline 3 L of O2 via nasal cannula. 
Her weight at the time of discharge was 198 pounds. 
Her cardiac exam was normal. 
Her lungs had fine crackles at both bases. 
Her abdomen was obese with no fluid wave. 
Her extremities had bilateral pitting edema to the knees and she had no asterixis. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Cefpodoxime 200 mg p.o. daily times 5 days , this medication should be discontinued after the last dose on 10/1/07 .  
2. Fosamax 35 mg p.o. weekly. 
3. Artificial tears 2 drops to both eyes 3 times a day as needed for dryness or irritation. 
4. Caltrate 600 plus D 1 tablet p.o. daily. 
5. Clotrimazole troche topically to the mouth twice daily. 
6. Dexamethasone 1 mg p.o. t.i.d. 7. Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. 8. Lovenox 30 mg subcutaneously daily , this medication can be discontinued once the patient is ambulating on a regular basis. 
9. Lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. 10. 
Aspartate insulin 20 units subcutaneously q.a.c. 11. 
Insulin aspartate sliding scale q.a.c. 12. Lantus 90 units subcutaneously q.a.m. 13. 
Combivent 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d. 14. 
Lactulose 30 mL p.o. q.i.d. , which can be held if the patient is having greater than 3 bowel movements daily. 
15. 
Miconazole powder applied topically to affected area twice daily. 
16. 
Nadolol 10 mg p.o. q.24h. 
17. Prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily. 
18. Bactrim 1 tablet p.o. q.24h. 
FOLLOW-UP: 1. 
The patient was discharged on 60 mg of Lasix twice daily. 
The patient's weight at the time of discharge was 198 kg. 
The patient should be weighed daily , and her primary care physician should be contacted for any weight gain greater than 5 pounds. 
The patient should have a chem-7 checked within the next 2 to 3 days to follow her creatinine as well as her potassium. 
2. The patient had a urine culture sent prior to discharge that revealed 100 , 000 colonies of bacteria that were not yet identified at the time of discharge. 
The patient was then started empirically on cefpodoxime based on past microbiologic data. 
The results of this urine culture should be followed up in a day or two and her antibiotics can be adjusted as necessary. 
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENT: 1. 
The patient has appointment with her gastroenterologist , Dr. Crowdis , on 3/6/07 at 2:20 p.m. in the afternoon. 
2. The patient has follow-up appointment with her primary care physician , Dr. Sakumoto , on 10/26/07 at 10:15. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to rehabilitation in stable condition. 
eScription document: 8-1885304 SSSten Tel CC: Rossie Mankoski MD Colnley Mor Health Ler CC: Chanelle Xochitl Collica M.D. CC: Misti Reinstein , MD Pagham University Of Alabama Dictated By: RANDKLEV , VERNON Attending: COLLICA , CHANELLE XOCHITL Dictation ID 5618542 D: 3/16/07 T: 3/16/07