680159882 | PUO | 61129049 | | 8154759 | 6/21/2006 12:00:00 AM | pneumonia | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/3/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 8/30/2006 ATTENDING: COSE , LATASHIA MD , MBA PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: The diagnosis responsible for causing the admission is pleural effusions. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Pleural effusions secondary to congestive heart failure. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Shortness of breath. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 86-year-old male with a history of congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , atrial fibrillation , chronic renal insufficiency , and non-small cell carcinoma of the left lung , status post resection in 1997. 
He presents with shortness of breath. 
He lives in a nursing home and was diagnosed with pneumonia more than three weeks prior to admission. 
The pneumonia , per report , was bilateral , left greater than right. 
He was started on a 10-day course of levofloxacin , which he completed. 
He subsequently developed C. diff colitis and was treated with Flagyl. 
Three days prior to the present admission , he noticing increased shortness of breath , worsened with any movement in bed. 
A chest x-ray at the nursing home reportedly showed an increased opacity in the right lower base , concerning for recurrent pneumonia. 
For this , he was restarted on levofloxacin. 
On the day of admission , his oxygen saturation dropped to 77% on room air , with improvement to the mid 90's on 3 liters of oxygen. 
He noted a mild dry cough. 
Her denied headache , dizziness , chest pain , hemoptysis , abdominal discomfort , or dysuria. 
His son reported that he has mild orthopnea at baseline , unchanged in recent days. 
Notably , he was admitted to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of in 5/23 for subacute shortness of breath , thought to be due to a CHF exacerbation , treated with Lasix diuresis. 
An echocardiogram at that time showed an ejection fraction of 55% , with mild left atrial enlargement , and mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy , along with inferobasal wall hypokinesis. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As above in the history of present illness , along with constipation , pain with movement of the right knee and right heel ulcer , status post skin graft. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Congestive heart failure , ejection fraction 55% , concentric LV hypertrophy. 
2. Coronary artery disease , status post multiple angioplasties of LAD and left circumflex in mid 1990's. 
3. Non-small cell carcinoma of the left lung , status post resection in 1997. 
4. Atrial fibrillation , diagnosed in 2005 , on Coumadin. 5. Diabetes mellitus , diagnosed more than 20 years ago , on insulin. 
6. Chronic renal insufficiency. 
7. Peripheral vascular disease , status post angioplasty in 2006. 
8. Osteoarthritis , worst in the right knee. 
9. Hypothyroidism. 
10. BPH , status post TURP , 1988. 
11. 
Status post appendectomy. 
12. 
Right heel ulcer , status post skin graft. 
13. 
Gout. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Digoxin 0.125 mg daily. 
2. Metoprolol 25 mg t.i.d. 3. Lasix 40 mg daily. 
4. Levofloxacin 750 mg daily. 
5. Coumadin 3 mg daily. 
6. Colchicine 0.6 mg b.i.d. 7. Prilosec 20 mg daily. 
8. Zocor 40 mg daily. 
9. Questran 2 mg twice a day. 
10. 
Aspirin 81 mg daily. 
11. 
Iron sulfate 325 mg daily. 
12. Neurontin 100 mg q.a.m. and 200 mg q.p.m. 13. 
Flomax 0.4 mg daily. 
14. 
Zoloft 50 mg daily. 
15. 
Synthroid 25 mcg daily. 
16. 
Lantus 32 units daily. 
17. NovoLog 6 units q.a.c. 18. Colace. 
19. 
Senna. 
20. Tylenol p.r.n. 21. Dilaudid p.r.n. 
ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to penicillin , which causes a rash. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: He has been living in a nursing home for the last month. 
His son is a neurologist. 
He smoked cigars for many years , currently a nonsmoker. 
Her denies any alcohol or illicit drug use. 
SUMMARY OF THE HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Shortness of breath: The patient initially presented with shortness of breath , saturating 77% on room air. 
He was noted on chest x-ray to have moderate bilateral effusions. 
The effusions were likely secondary to congestive heart failure , although pneumonia with parapneumonic effusions could not be excluded. 
Given that he was afebrile with a decreasing white count and not increasingly hypoxic , parapneumonic effusions were considered less likely compared to worsening CHF. 
Given the concern for CHF , he was given Lasix 40 mg IV approximately one to two doses a day for large volume diuresis , with a goal of total body balance of 2 liters negative per day. 
Over the course of his hospitalization , his bilateral effusions improved , although there were small effusions noted on the chest x-ray at the time of discharge. 
His oxygen requirement decreased , and on the day of discharge , he was saturating 97-98% on 1 liter. 
Of note , the patient was brought to ultrasound for a planned guided thoracocentesis , but the effusion sites were small such that in the context of this clinical improvement , thoracocentesis was deferred. 
He was maintained initially as well with vancomycin and levofloxacin , although the vancomycin was discontinued after four days , and the levofloxacin was discontinued on discharge ( of note , he received 10 days total of levofloxacin starting from 3/27/2006 at his nursing home ). 
Echocardiogram noted an ejection fraction of 55-60% with left ventricular hypertrophy , consistent with diastolic dysfunction. 
The etiology of his congestive heart failure and pleural effusions was therefore thought to be atrial fibrillation with RVR. 
In terms of follow up , he needs daily weights; if he gains greater than 2 pounds over 24 hours , it is recommended that his Lasix dose be doubled for that day. 
As a discharge , he is being sent out on Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily. 
2. Cardiovascular: a. Ischemia: The patient initially had a small troponin leak 0.32 , which was thought secondary to demand ischemia from atrial fibrillation with RVR. 
For this , he was briefly started on a heparin drip. 
Subsequently , cardiac enzymes trended down. 
The patient was maintained on Coumadin and aspirin 81 mg , along with Zocor and Questran for hyperlipidemia. 
On hospital day #3 to #4 , telemetry noted pauses. 
EKG showed in addition to pausing , new T-wave inversions in anterior precordial leads , associated with ST depression. 
This is thought to be either due to ischemia or digitalis toxicity. 
His digoxin levels measured 1.3 to 1.4 , so digoxin was held , with improving in pausing , but no change in T-wave inversions. 
In discussions with his outpatient cardiologist , it was thought that his T-wave inversions could possible be ischemic , although the appropriate course of action was not to pursue further anticoagulation or evaluation for catheterization , given the patient's other medical issues. 
He was maintained on Coumadin , aspirin , Zocor , Questran , and Lopressor. 
b. Rhythm: The patient continued to be in atrial fibrillation throughout his hospitalization and was rate controlled with Lopressor 37.5 mg t.i.d. ( increased from a home dose of 25 mg t.i.d. ). 
He was also maintained on Coumadin 2 mg daily for anticoagulation. 
On admission , there was a report that he had runs of ventricular tachycardia and he was placed on a lidocaine drip for several hours in the emergency department. 
No documentation regarding telemetry strips or QRS morphologies could be obtained to verify this rhythm , however. 
In addition , throughout his hospitalization , he had occasional runs nonsustained VT and SVT. 
As discussed above , he was thought to have mild digoxin toxicity given pausing with a digoxin level of 1.3 to 1.4. 
His digoxin was therefore held and subsequent improvement in pausing was noted. 
Of note , on discharge , his digoxin has been discontinued. 
His primary care physician and cardiologist should consider whether or not to restart digoxin as an outpatient. 
c. Pump: The patient was aggressively diuresed with 40 mg IV of Lasix approximately one to two times per day , for a total diuresis of roughly negative 9 liters over the course of his hospitalization. 
Echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 55-60% with left ventricular hypertrophy , consistent with diastolic dysfunction. 
As discussed above , he will be discharged on Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily. 
Note , as mentioned above , if he gains greater than 2 pounds over a 24-hour period , his Lasix dose should be doubled for that day. 
3. C. diff: The patient had a positive C. diff as an inpatient. 
He had been on Flagyl , which was started at the nursing home for a prior diagnosis of C. diff. 
Because of persistent bowel movements , he was switched to p.o. vancomycin 250 mg q.i.d. , and upon discharge , he was started on a probiotic ( Saccharomyces boulardii 250 mg q.i.d. ) to replenish his gut flora. 
We will recommend that he continue p.o. vancomycin and the probiotic for 10 days after his diarrheal symptoms have resolved. 
If these symptoms do not improve on the regimen within the few days following discharge from Petersram Medical Center , we will recommend consider adding metronidazole IV and getting an infectious disease consult. 
4. Diabetes: The patient had several bouts of hypoglycemia during the course of his hospitalization. 
These were appeared to be related to poor p.o. intake. 
His Lantus was changed to 15 daily , and he was covered with a NovoLog sliding scale. 
After the changes , his fingersticks ranged in mid 100's. 
5. Hypothyroidism: The patient's TSH was low with a normal free T4 suggestive of sick euthyroid. 
He was continued on Synthroid 25 mcg daily. 
6. Musculoskeletal: Given the patient's creatinine clearance of less than 50 , his colchicine dose for gout was switched from 0.6 mg b.i.d. to 0.6 mg daily. 
We continued his Neurontin for neuropathic pain , and Tylenol for right knee osteoarthritis. 
He was seen by Plastic Surgery registered nurse who recommended Panafil with dressing for his right heel ulcer. 
He also has a small ulcer developing on his left big toe , which will need close observation as follow up. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.8 h. 
p.r.n. for headache , aspirin 81 mg daily , Questran 4 mg daily , colchicine 0.6 mg daily , Nexium 20 mg daily , Lasix 40 mg daily , Neurontin 100 mg q.a.m. and 200 mg q.p.m. , Lantus 15 units subq at bedtime , Synthroid 25 mcg p.o. daily , Maalox one to two tablets p.o. q.6 h. 
, metoprolol 37.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Panafil ointment topical twice b.i.d. , Saccharomyces boulardii 250 mg p.o. q.i.d. , Zoloft 50 mg q.a.m. , Zocor 40 mg at bedtime , Flomax 0.4 mg daily , vancomycin 250 mg p.o. q.6 h. 
, Coumadin 2 mg p.o. q.p.m. , and iron sulfate 325 mg daily. 
eScription document: 0-9671938 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: BLACKGOAT , GERMAINE Attending: COSE , LATASHIA Dictation ID 7488490 D: 5/26/06 T: 5/26/06