976282656 | PUO | 64160306 | | 2492688 | 9/27/2005 12:00:00 AM | MULTIPLE MYELOMA , FAILURE TO THRIVE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/26/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/11/2005 ATTENDING: ARGUST , STEPHAN KURT MD PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Fluid overload/CHF. 
LIST OF PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES: 1. Cardiac 2. Renal/genitourinary 3. Heme 4. Onc 5. Endocrine 6. Pain 7. Psychiatric BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 69-year-old male with a history of multiple myeloma , and worsening BPH ( benign prostatic hypertrophy ) , requiring a Foley. 
The patient was seen in Setlake Caardlin County Medical Center on the day of admission and was noted to have a hematocrit drop from the 37 range to 28.5 along with hypotension and an increasing creatinine rising from 1.2-2.3 in one week's time. 
The patient was noted to have recently significantly increasing lower extremity edema. 
He reports that over a 3-4 day period , he went from having almost no edema to having very large legs , which he describes "tree trunks." 
The patient reports that these were painful at first , but are no longer painful. 
He reports that they were always symmetric. 
The patient reports no prior history of CHF ( congestive heart failure ) , or any severe cardiac problems , which he is aware , but does report having heart attack at 27 years old. 
The patient did not know the details of these cardiac events at 27 years old , and has received minimal followup for this issue. 
He does report that he was intermittently seen by a cardiologist , and had a normal catheterization four years ago. 
He reports he has never had an echocardiogram. 
The patient also reports an episode of 30-minute chest tightness the day prior to admission while he was having a Foley catheter placed. 
The patient did not tell anyone about this at that time , and this pain desisted on its own. 
The pain was described as substernal burning pain , with no left arm pain , no jaw pain , no shortness of breath or diaphoresis , and no nausea or vomiting. 
The patient has had no orthopnea or PND. 
The patient has had a recent history increasingly worsening BPH. 
The patient has a 15-year history of BPH , and is followed by Dr. Haley Tonsil at Pagham University Of .  
The patient was recently admitted to PUO for anuria , had a cystoscopy , clot evacuation and was discharged on 7/24/05 with a Foley in place. 
The patient followed up with Dr. Tonsil on 10/21/05 , had his Foley removed , but failed this trial and he represented to an outside hospital with clots and anuria. 
The patient's bladder was irrigated and the Foley was replaced. 
He reports that he has been passing clots but that he has been passing urine. 
The patient also reports that his urine while having clots at times , is mostly clear and yellow , and that he continually makes urine and has to replace the Foley bag. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. 
Multiple myeloma ( Kappa ). 2. BPH. 3. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus type II. 4. Hypertension. 5. Nephrolithiasis. 
6. Myocardial infarction at 27 years old. 
ALLERGIES: NKDA. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Verapamil 180 mg once daily. 
2. Lisinopril 20 mg once daily. 
3. Lasix 20 mg once daily. 
4. Aldactazide 50/50 mg on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday. 
5. Flomax 0.4 mg once daily. 
6. Lipitor 10 mg once daily. 
7. Proscar 5 mg once daily. 
8. Percocet as needed for pain. 
9. Lantus 15 units daily. 
10. 
Humalog sliding scale insulin 11. 
The patient's chemotherapy - Velcade , last 8/4/05 .  
12. Other medications recently used in association with chemotherapy , Zometa , Aranesp. 
13. 
As needed medications: a. Lorazepam. 
b. Ranitidine. 
c. Senna. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient used to work in construction and demolition. 
He had never smoked , and has never drank alcohol. 
The patient was with his wife , they have no children. 
2. Diabetes mellitus - The patient's sister died of complications of diabetes. 
3. Cancer - The patient does have history of cancer in his family , but is unclear of the details. 
BRIEF PHYSICAL EXAM: Vital signs: Temperature 96.5 , pulse 70 , blood pressure 100/62 , respiratory rate 20 and the patient is satting 95% on room air. 
General: The patient is alert , oriented , in no acute distress , and is not ill appearing. 
HEENT: Normocephalic , atraumatic , oropharynx is clear. 
No lesions or ulcers. 
No lymphadenopathy. 
Anicteric sclerae. 
Cardiovascular , has JVP elevated to the angle of the jaw. 
Regular rate and rhythm , with frequent premature beat. 
No S3 or S4 appreciated. 
Pulmonary: A few crackles at the left base otherwise clear to auscultation. 
Abdomen: Soft , nontender , bowel sounds present and normoactive. 
No hepatosplenomegaly , no frank dullness. 
Extremities: 2-3+ pitting edema to the knees , symmetric bilaterally , shins lukewarm. 
Strength 5/5 throughout in upper and lower extremities. 
Neurological: The patient is alert and oriented x3 , has normal affect. 
Reflexes in the biceps , patellar , and Achilles tendons are equal bilaterally. 
Sensation grossly intact on upper and lower extremities. 
PERTINENT LABORATORY RESULTS: On admission , the patient's white blood cell count was 7.2 , his hematocrit was 28.5 , down from 37 one week previously. 
The patient's platelet count was 238 , 000. 
The patient's chem-7 was unremarkable with the exception of a creatinine of 2.3 , up from a baseline of 1.2-1.4 over one week's time. 
The patient had a BNP checked , which turned out to be 312 , elevated. 
The patient has also had several recent imaging studies including renal ultrasound on 2/6/05 , which showed multiple bilateral renal cysts but no obstruction. 
An abdominal MRI was obtained on 2/20/05 , which showed small amount of ascites , an enlarged prostate , multiple renal cysts , no other pathologies was noted. 
The patient also had a CT to evaluate his ureters on 10/8/05 , which showed no stones in the kidneys or ureters , but an enlarged prostate. 
A cystoscopy report from 9/23/05 from a recent admission to Pagham University Of showed oozing from tortuous veins in the prostate. 
The patient had an EKG , which showed first-degree block with a left bundle branch block , and frequent PVCs. 
This was noted to be present on an old examination , after consultation with an outpatient cardiologist at Lovelin Medical Center .  
The patient had a troponin I of 0.11 , slightly elevated. 
The patient's CK was 136 , MB fraction 4.3 , both within normal limits. 
On admission , the patient coagulation parameters showed an INR of 1.2. 
Other pertinent data includes an orally reported cardiac catheterization at Tona Medical Center in 2001 , which showed no obstructive coronary disease , but diffuse coronary artery disease , with an ejection fraction of 50%. 
An adenosine MIBI obtained in 2002 at Lovelin Medical Center showed possible old inferior infarct , global hypokinesis and an ejection fraction of 35-40%. 
An echocardiogram obtained during this admission demonstrated the patient's EF at this point to be 25% , rather with global hypokinesis. 
OPERATIONS OR PROCEDURES: There were no operations or procedures performed during this admission. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: Cardiovascular - the patient was determined initially to be likely in congestive heart failure , with elevated neck veins , and increased leg edema and a low blood pressure. 
Because the patient was determined to be in CHF , he was diuresed with IV Lasix , and later with p.o. Lasix , the patient was diuresed approximately 2 liters per day over a 4-5 period. 
The patient's blood pressure subsequently rose. 
After consultation with Cardiology , it was determined that a beta blocker and an ACE inhibitor should be added to the patient's medication regimen as his blood pressure would allow , for demonstrated benefit and congestive heart failure. 
Because the patient was initially determined to have some risk of myocardial infarction , had reported chest pain the day prior to admission , and had slightly elevated troponins. 
The patient's troponin and CK-MB were followed until they began decreasing. 
It is likely that these very small elevations were due to small amount of ischemia from demand , due to the patient's fluid overload and anemia. 
The patient was continued on his statin medication. 
The patient on admission had frequent PVCs , and some short runs of ventricular tachycardia lasting less than 5 beats. 
After diuresis , the patient had no further runs of VT , and had only minimal ectopy. 
The patient's electrolytes including potassium and magnesium were checked daily and repleted as necessary. 
Aspirin was withheld from the patient for now , despite having a benefit in cardiac disease of this kind. 
This is because the patient's hematocrit was low and he had recently had bleeding likely from his bladder. 
Urology Department was consulted regarding this decision. 
Renal/genitourinary: The patient has a long known history of BPH and is followed closely at Pagham University Of by Dr. Haley Tonsil . 
The patient was recently admitted for these problems due to obstruction , and instrumentation. 
On admission , the patient's urine did not have any red blood cells , and he had no obvious clots at any point. 
After consultation with Urology , and after the patient had been diuresing well with Lasix , the patient's Foley catheter was removed and after this point he had no problem with urinating. 
The patient was maintained on Proscar in addition to Flomax. 
Heme: The patient's hematocrit drop was likely due to two factors. 
First of all , the patient is known to have been losing blood in the form of clots from his bladder. 
This is likely due to bleeding from the surface of his prostate where a recent cystoscopy had demonstrated tortuous veins. 
In addition , the reading of hematocrit of 24.5 on admission was likely secondary to dilution , the patient was massively fluid overloaded. 
The patient's hematocrit rose after diuresis , and was maintained in the 31-32 range without transfusion during admission. 
He was , however , typed and screened , and the plan was to transfuse him should his hematocrit decrease below 30 , given his cardiac history. 
Oncologic: The patient is followed closely by Dr. Malachi at Setlake Caardlin County Medical Center .  
His most recent treatment was on 8/4/05 and his multiple myeloma seems to be responding well to therapy. 
During this admission , multiple myeloma was not an active issue. 
See Brook Mepa Community Hospital notes for more information. 
Endocrine: The patient has a history of type 2 diabetes , he takes Lantus and Novolog at home. 
He was continued on these medications while as an inpatient. 
Pain: The patient was offered oxycodone p.r.n. for pain. 
He did not complain of any pain during admission. 
Psychiatric: The patient , though pleasant and cooperative on admission , became increasingly combative. 
On the night of 1/5/05 , he became very combative , and attempted to hit one of the cross covering physicians. 
The patient was initially tried on several medications to control this agitation including Ativan and Zyprexa. 
These apparently were not effective at first. 
The patient continued to have difficulty sleeping and was very agitated. 
At one point , he would not take his medications. 
Psychiatry was involved , and after much discussion with the patient and involvement of social work , the patient did calm down and agreed to medical care. 
At one point when he became agitated , he was given Haldol intravenously , in addition to Ativan , after being given these medications , the patient slept very well through the night. 
When he awoke the next morning , his mood was much improved , and he apologized for his behavior , reporting he did not know what happened. 
Because of the change in mental status , several studies were obtained to investigate this , a head CT showed no acute disease , only some bony changes likely chronic due to multiple myeloma. 
In addition , the patient's electrolytes were checked which were normal , the patient's fingerstick blood glucose was checked which was normal. 
In addition , an RPR was sent , in addition to folate and B12. 
These labs were pending at the time of discharge and will be followed up by his outpatient physicians. 
CODE STATUS: Full code. 
COMPLICATIONS: There were no complications during this admission. 
CONSULTANTS: 1. Cardiology - the patient was seen by cardiology fellow , Dr. Cornelia Zable , who set him up with follow up in the Totin Hospital And Clinic Cardiology Clinic. 
2. Urology: Dr. Haley Tonsil , Pagham University Of .  
3. Psychiatry: Dr. Luquin , Setlake Caardlin County Medical Center Psychiatry. 
KEY FEATURES OF PHYSICAL EXAM ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient was mentating very well , thinking clearly , and was pleasant and cooperative. 
The remainder of the patient's exam was much improved from his admission and his lower extremity edema had decreased to 1+ , and he continued to diurese well with p.o. Lasix. 
The patient's JVP while still slightly elevated at 7 cm , was much decreased from admission JVP , which had gone to the angle of the jaw. 
On discharge , the patient was urinating well and had no urinary symptoms. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Colace 100 mg p.o. orally twice daily. 
2. Ferrous sulfate 325 mg orally three times daily. 
3. Lasix 80 mg p.o. once orally daily. 
4. Lopressor 25 mg orally twice daily. 
5. Proscar 5 mg orally daily. 
6. Zyprexa 5 mg orally daily before bed. 
7. Flomax 0.4 mg orally daily. 
8. Nexium 20 mg orally daily. 
9. Lantus 15 units subcutaneously each morning. 
10. 
Humalog , sliding scale per patient's prior scale. 
11. 
Lisinopril 2.5 mg once daily. 
12. Lipitor 10 mg orally daily before bed. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home with VNA followup. 
PHYSICIAN FOLLOW-UP PLANS: The patient has been setup to follow with the CHF Clinic at Pagham University Of with Dr. Annabel Verfaille . 
The patient has also been setup for a follow-up appointment with Cardiology at Pagham University Of on 3/26/05 at 9 a.m. , the patient will be setup for followup at the Nonup Community Hospital , the patient has also been setup with Urology followup , they have contacted him directly. 
The patient's inpatient psychiatry followup was contacted while an inpatient , he will be contacted with further follow-up plans once he has left the hospital. 
ADVANCE DIRECTIVE: The patient describes his wish to be full code at the time of hospitalization. 
eScription document: 2-5530900 EMSSten Tel CC: Dominick Luquin MD SSR Psychiatry Lande Southlaretroit , Maine CC: Haley Tonsil MD Jose Dictated By: MAINER , SHAVONNE Attending: MAX Z. BALLER , M.D. OJ18 Dictation ID 9071924 D: 1/1/05 T: 1/1/05