745816481 | PUO | 53863389 | | 0947434 | 11/25/2004 12:00:00 AM | CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/4/2004 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 2/17/2004 ATTENDING: JERAMY CASSEM M.D. DISCHARGE DATE AND TIME: The patient is being discharged from the Medical Intensive Care Unit at 1:00 p.m. on the 2/17/2004 .  
DISPOSITION: The patient is to be discharged to Asidea Rehabilitation Hospital today. 
ADMISSION DATE: The patient was admitted to Pagham University Of on 2/4/2004 and was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care unit on 6/29/2004 .  
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: The patient was admitted to Pagham University Of with the diagnosis of changes in mental status secondary to hypercarbia. 
The patient was admitted to Medical Intensive Care Unit with hypercarbic respiratory failure. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for COPD , CHF , CAD , non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , renal insufficiency , chronic venostasis , cellulitis , obesity , gout , sleep apnea , asthma , hypertension , urinary retention , degenerative joint disease of the right knee. 
The patient is status post CABG 1999 three vessels. 
The patient has an 80-pack-year smoking history. 
The patient is on two liters of nasal cannula at home. 
The patient is full code. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 80-year-old gentleman with a long history of COPD who is on 2 liters of nasal cannula at home with 80-pack-year of smoking history. 
Briefly , the patient is an 80-year-old gentleman who was admitted to Pagham University Of on 2/4/2004 with drowsiness and slurred speech. 
Initial ABG showed pH of 7.25 , PCO2 of 82 , PO2 of 56 , sating 87%. 
He quickly awakened after Narcan was administered. 
Recently , he had been taking an increased amount of opiates for pain and he was admitted with a diagnosis of hypercarbia secondary to increased opiate intake and COPD flare. 
The patient had a long history of COPD. 
He has an 80-pack-year of smoking history and is normally on 2 liters of nasal cannula at home. 
He was initially treated for COPD on the floor and given gentle hydration as he also suffers chronic renal insufficiency. 
He was given Percocet for pain control. 
The patient appears to be improving by serial arterial blood gasses. 
Had decrease in creatinine and improved mental status. 
At 11:00 a.m. on the 6/29/2004 the patient was found breathless and pulseless. 
At that time , his ABG showed a pH of 7.04 , PCO2 of 95 , PO2 of 47 , he was sating 54%. 
An ACLS code was 1. 
The patient received 1 mg atropine and 0.04 of Narcan. 
He appeared to be aspirating when intubated. 
He was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit where he was until 2/17/2004 , when he was discharged. 
ALLERGIES: The patient has questionable penicillin allergies with unknown reaction. 
PERTINENT PHYSICAL EXAM: In general , the patient is an obese Hispanic male who is sedated and intubated. 
He responds to commands and is oriented to voice on admission to the Medical Intensive Care Unit. 
His skin showed his lower extremities with changes of chronic venostasis. 
He had erythema to the knees , nonpitting edema bilateral to the knees and induration of skin on legs , medial thigh , and bilateral popliteal fossae. 
His feet had onychomycosis bilaterally with no clearcut abrasions or cuts. 
The rest of his skin exam was remarkable for multiple ecchymoses , one weeping plaque on the abdomen at heparin injection site. 
His right subclavian line was nontender and nonerythematous with one leaking port. 
Head and neck exam: His pupils were equal , round and reactive to light and accommodations. 
His extraocular movements were intact. 
His oropharynx was clear. 
His endotracheal tube and OG tube were in place. 
His chest sounds were clear anteriorly. 
He had decreased breath sounds laterally. 
He had isolated wheezing at the left midclavicular line. 
His heart sounds , S1 and S2 were heard. 
His abdomen was obese. 
He had a large panus , no appreciable organomegaly , tenderness and hyperactive bowel sounds. 
Extremities: He was moving all four extremities spontaneously. 
They were warm and perfused. 
Neurologically , his cranial nerves were grossly intact. 
There were no focal anomalies. 
On addition , the patient had a sodium of 140 , a potassium of 5.4 , chloride of 104 , carbon dioxide of 24 , BUN of 72 , creatinine of 2.1 , glucose of 153. 
She had an ionized calcium of 1.04 and magnesium of 2.1. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: 1. Pulmonary. 
The patient was admitted to the MICU with hypercarbic respiratory arrest and aspiration pneumonia per symptoms , signs and chest x-ray. 
Given the history and timing of the arrest , the patient likely was hypercarbic secondary to COPD exacerbation , as hypercarbic arrest occurred several days in house where opiates were not administered. 
It is highly improbable that the arrest happened secondary to opiate ingestion rather patient likely had COPD exacerbation. 
Also , the patient has significant cardiac history of CHF and CAD , which may have contributed. 
Subsequent chest CT on the floor demonstrated that in addition the patient had very significant pleural effusions. 
The patient was treated for aspiration pneumonia with levofloxacin and Flagyl and aztreonam. 
He was also treated with albuterol Atrovent nebulizers. 
Aggressive physical therapy was also provided for the patient. 
The patient after completing his antibiotic treatments for aspiration pneumonia was noted to have MRSA growing in his sputum. 
He was given a 14-day course of vancomycin as well to treat MRSA pneumonia. 
To help the patient's pulmonary status , significant diuresis was attempted. 
The patient was typically diuresed at 1-2 liters per day. 
The aggressive diuresis was estimated to have taken in the neighborhood of 15-20 liters of the patient and this likely remarkably helped the patient's breathing status and his ability to get off the ventilator. 
The patient had a tracheostomy and peg placed on 8/27/04 and began breathing on trache collar on the 6/11/04 and has been breathing until the present time successfully on trache collar. 
2. ID. 
The patient was diagnosed with aspiration pneumonia. 
He was also colonized with MRSA and VSE by the end of his course. 
During his initial MICU admission he was diagnosed with vancomycin sensitive enterococcal UTI. 
He was treated with antibiotics for all of these. 
His aspiration pneumonia was treated with levofloxacin , aztreonam and Flagyl. 
Subsequent MRSA pneumonia was treated with vancomycin. 
The patient has not had , at the time of admission , white count or a significant fever and his cultures two days prior to discharge have been negative. 
3. Cardiovascular. 
The patient has a significant cardiac history for CHF and CAD. 
His heart rhythm has been mostly stable during the course of his hospitalization. 
Hypertension has been treated with Lopressor. 
4. Renal. 
The patient has a history of chronic renal insufficiency. 
However , renal function had improved during the patient's hospital course. 
At the time of discharge , the patient had a creatinine of 0.9 , a BUN of 38 , a potassium of 3.9 and a creatinine of 0.9. 
Presumably , the aggressive diuresis that was conducted did not affect the patient's renal function adversely. 
5. Endocrine. 
The patient has a history of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. 
He was put on Lantus and insulin sliding scale , by the end of his day he was on 80 units of Lantus plus requiring additional insulin on the sliding scale. 
CODE STATUS: The patient is full code. 
The proxy for the patient is his daughter , Broyles , who was actively involved in the patient's care. 
NUTRITION: The patient was fed on Jevity tube feeds during most of his medical ICU course. 
DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAM: The patient's physical exam was notable for a tracheostomy in place with a clean site of insertion. 
GJ tube placed in the abdomen with a clean surgical wound. 
Clear sounding lungs with breath sounds that can be heard more extensively than before from the anterior side , resolving chronic venostasis and with those exceptions the patient's exam remain similar to his admission exam. 
In general , the patient is interactive , alert and oriented. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATION: Include Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. pain , acetylsalicylic acid 325 mg p.o. q. day , Dulcolax 10 mg p.o. q. day , hold of diarrhea , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fentanyl patch 75 mcg per hour topical patch , change every 72 hours or hold if there is a change in mental changes , Lasix 120 mg p.o. q. day , Haldol 4 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. for agitation , insulin sliding scale , subcutaneous insulin every four hours , if the blood sugar is less than 110 , give 0 units , if the blood sugar is between 111 and 130 , give 1 unit , if the blood sugar is between 131 and 150 , give 2 units , if the blood sugar is between 151 and 200 , give 3 units , if the blood sugar is between 201 and 250 , give four units , if the blood sugar is between 251 and 300 , give 6 units , if the blood sugar is between 301 and 350 , give 8 units , if the blood sugar is greater than 351 , then contact the officer. 
Lactulose p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. constipation , Ativan 2 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. anxiety , milk of magnesia 30 mL p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. hold if systolic blood pressure is less than 100 or heart rate is less than 55 , senna tabs two tabs p.o. b.i.d. , multivitamins , Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , avoid grape juice or grape fruit with this medication , Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneously everyday , K-Dur slow release of potassium 20 mEq p.o. q.d. , Zyprexa 10 mg G tube b.i.d. , miconazole nitrate 2% powder topical TP b.i.d. , Nexium 20 mg p.o. , Lantus 80 units subcutaneously q.h.s. , please give the patient half a dose if he is n.p.o. , DuoNeb q.6h. 
p.r.n. for shortness of breath. 
CODE STATUS: The patient is full code and the health care proxy is Broyles . 
eScription document: 8-0365370 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: ESANNASON , BELINDA Attending: CASSEM , JERAMY Dictation ID 7716683 D: 3/20/04 T: 3/20/04