281801955 | PUO | 38766817 | | 221952 | 9/25/2000 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/23/2000 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Right lower extremity cellulitis. 
Type II diabetes mellitus. 
Peripheral vascular disease. 
Congestive heart failure. 
Hypertension. 
Chronic abdominal distention. 
Chronic renal insufficiency. 
Status post left femoral popliteal bypass in 1997. 
Status post skin graft on right heel for diabetic ulcers in 1997. 
Coronary artery disease. 
Status post open reduction internal fixation left ankle. 
Spondylolothesis. 
Hypercholesterolemia. Peripheral neuropathy. 
Diabetic gastroparesis. 
Diabetic retinopathy. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome. 
Anemia. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Rodger Eagleman is a 66 year-old woman with a history of type II diabetes mellitus , congestive heart failure , peripheral vascular disease who presents to us with right leg swelling , pain and tenderness times 2-3 days. 
The patient was last discharged from Pagham University Of for congestive heart failure exacerbation and chronic abdominal distention on November , 2000. 
She was in her usual state of poor health until three days prior to admission when she noted an increase in lower extremity edema bilaterally. 
Two days prior to admission she noted fever , increased abdominal distention and abdominal pain. 
She noted rash in the right lower extremity the day prior to presentation which had rapidly progressed over one day , extending from heel to knee. 
She had not been walking for four days due to swelling in bilateral legs. 
She denies chest pain , dyspnea , constipation , diarrhea , orthopnea , PND , nocturia , melena. 
She does not keep track of her own weight. 
Her last bowel movement was one day prior to admission which was normal brown , slightly loose. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for 1. coronary artery disease. 
She had a stress test in 1994 which showed anterior ischemia with no fixed defects. 
She had an echo in July , 1997 which showed left ventricular hypertrophy with an EF of 55% with minor inferior hypokinesis. 
2. Congestive heart failure. 
3. Type II diabetes mellitus. 
Last hemoglobin A1C was 9.5 in September , 2000. 
Complications include peripheral neuropathy , retinopathy , nephropathy with a baseline creatinine of 1.3 to 1.9 and diabetic gastroparesis. 
4. Hypercholesterolemia. 5. Chronic low back pain. 
6. Chronic constipation. 
7. Anemia. 
8. Peripheral vascular disease , status post left femoral popliteal bypass in 1997. 
9. Status post right heel skin graft for ulcer in 1997. 
10. 
Carpal tunnel syndrome , status post release in 1998. 
11. 
History of Azotobacter pneumonia in 1997. 
12. Status post cholecystectomy. 
13. 
History of C. difficile colitis. 
14. 
Status left ankle fracture open reduction internal fixation in February , 1998. 
MEDICATION: On admission include Insulin NPH pork 45 units q a.m. , 8 units q p.m. , Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , Vaseretic 10/25 mg q.d. , Dulcolax 10 mg q.d. , aspirin 325 mg q.d. , Senokot 2 mg b.i.d. , Diazepam 5 mg b.i.d. , Lipitor 10 mg q.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , Lasix 60 mg q.d. , lactulose 30 mg b.i.d. , Neurontin 300 mg t.i.d. , Naprosyn p.r.n. 
ALLERGIES: Include Aldomet , nifedipine , darvocet which makes her drowsy , Percocet which makes her vomit. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives with her sister in Akjo , North Dakota 91638 The son is involved in her care. 
She does not have a history of smoking or drinking. 
Her husband died a year ago of complications from cardiac bypass. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs: Temperature 102.1 , blood pressure 148/68 , pulse 84 , respirations 22 , sating 92% on two liters. 
General examination: This is an obese woman lying at a 30 degree angle on the bed , pleasant and not in acute distress. 
Head and neck examination was benign. 
Lungs have rales up one-third of the lungs bilaterally , no wheezes or rhonchi. 
Heart regular rate and rhythm , S1 , S2 with S3 and II/VI systolic murmur , best heard over the base. 
Jugular venous pulsation at 11 cm. 
Abdominal examination was soft , nontender , mildly distended , no mass and normal bowel sounds. 
Extremities showed diffuse erythema from right heel extending to 5 cm below the knee , mild tenderness , edema greater in the right leg than the left leg. 
3+ pitting edema bilaterally. 
She also has a 5 cm x 5 cm skin graft over the right heel with some skin breakdown around the graft site , slightly weepy , no pus. 
Neurologic examination: The patient is alert and oriented times three. 
Cranial nerves are intact. 
The patient does not have any sensation in bilateral legs. 
Normal strength. 
LABORATORY DATA: Significant for hematocrit of 30.7 , white blood count 10 , 340 , with a differential of 76 polys , 14 bands , 5 lymphocytes. 
Chem-7 was significant for creatinine of 1.8. 
Her liver function tests were within normal range. 
Her CK first set was 120 with an MB of 2.6 and troponin of 1.39 , coags normal D-dimer of greater than 1 , 010. 
Her urinalysis was negative. 
Electrocardiogram showed 1 mm ST depression in the lateral leads , unchanged from baseline. 
Chest x-ray revealed bilateral interstitial prominence , could be consistent with pulmonary edema , no focal opacities. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: PROBLEM #1 , CELLULITIS: On admission , the patient was started on cefazolin and Flagyl for broad coverage of cellulitis given she has a history of diabetes mellitus. 
In addition , levofloxacin was also started on hospital day #2 to cover gram negative organisms. 
Blood cultures on admission are negative. 
Because of the skin graft on the patient's right heel , plastic surgery was consulted to assess the integrity of the skin graft. 
They concluded that the skin graft is intact and the source of the cellulitis was not in the heel. 
On hospital day #3 , Flagyl was discontinued because the patient could not tolerate oral sores and the GI upset. 
Therefore , we elected to change the antibiotic regimen to Clindamycin and levofloxacin. 
cefazolin and Flagyl were discontinued. 
On hospital day #6 the patient developed diarrhea. 
Given her history of C. difficile in the past and the lack of improvement in her cellulitis , Infectious Disease were consulted. 
We started cefotaxime and Vancomycin on hospital day #7. 
The patient continued to have low grade temperature spikes with daily blood cultures which have all been negative. 
Wound culture of the bullae on the right lower extremity was also taken which has also been negative. 
Vancomycin was discontinued due to low suspicions of resistant organisms. 
The patient also had LENIs which were negative for DVT as well as a right foot film which showed no signs of osteomyelitis. 
Unfortunately , the cellulitis does not look significantly improved. 
We postulate that this is due to a combination of noncompliance with strict elevation , peripheral edema from congestive heart failure , peripheral vascular disease and diabetes. 
The patient continued to spike low grade temperatures. 
We carried out pan culture which have all been negative so far including urine , blood. 
At the time of this dictation the patient has been on cefotaxime for seven days. 
Infectious Disease recommends an MRI to rule out osteo and deeper infection since the cellulitis is very slowly improving. 
PROBLEM #2 , CHRONIC RENAL FAILURE AND CHRONIC RENAL INSUFFICIENCY: On admission we started to diurese the patient as she was volume overloaded by examination. 
In addition , we started her on her outpatient blood pressure medications to control her hypertension. 
However , on hospital day #2 , the patient's blood pressure dipped into the high 90s to 100 with a rise in creatinine. 
We withheld all blood pressure medication as well as diuresis. 
Her creatinine continued to climb from 2.2 to 3.3. 
The urinalysis showed numerous red blood cells and no eosinophils. 
Of note , her urine culture grew out lactobacillus which was not treated. 
Renal was consulted , and it was thought that the patient's acute renal failure was due to prerenal causes from a drop in blood pressure as well as mild ATN. 
The patient's creatinine responded to gentle fluid boluses and resolved on its own by hospital day #7. 
During the period of acute renal failure , the patient also had marked hyponatremia which also resolved as the renal function improved. 
The patient's creatinine improved to 1.1 on hospital day #10. 
At this time , she underwent a CT with contrast to delineate a possible liver mass. 
Her subsequent creatinine climbed to 1.8. 
We had also started her on her outpatient dose of enalapril and Lasix. 
We elected to discontinue the enalapril and Lasix due to her increased creatinine. 
We will observe and add back an ace inhibitor as tolerated. 
PROBLEM #3 , CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE , STATUS POST NON Q-WAVE MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION: The patient was admitted on a rule out protocol. 
On her third set of enzymes she showed a CK of 142 , CK MB of 2.2 but a troponin of 6.64. 
The patient was asymptomatic with no chest pains and no electrocardiogram changes. 
Cardiology was consulted and it was felt that the patient had a small non Q-wave myocardial infarction with a troponin leak. 
A repeat echo on this admission showed preserved EF at 55% with no observable wall motion abnormalities. 
As the patient has refused catheterization in the past , it was decided that she be managed medically. 
She was started on Metoprolol 12.5 mg b.i.d. as well as aspirin. 
The patient has remained symptom free. 
PROBLEM #4 , HYPERTENSION: The patient was initially slightly hypotensive at a systolic blood pressure of 90s to 100 on hospital day #1. 
Her enalapril and outpatient dose of Atenolol were held. 
She was started back on Metoprolol after the non Q-wave myocardial infarction. 
Currently , her blood pressure is maintained between 130-150 systolic. 
We attempted to add back enalapril at this time to preserve her kidney function given her diabetes. 
However , her creatinine increased mildly , thus we have elected to hold enalapril again. 
PROBLEM #5 , GASTROINTESTINAL: The patient has a history of chronic constipation on home regimen of Dulcolax , senna , Colace and lactulose. 
A KUB was obtained on admission which showed air in the colon but no obstruction. 
It was thought that her chronic distention is from diabetic gastroparesis and relative immobility. 
The patient developed diarrhea during her hospital course for which her laxatives were held. 
Her stool has been C. difficile negative. 
She has tolerated very little food due to abdominal distention. 
She has continued to advance her diet currently to some small snacks during the day. 
Her laxatives were re-instituted. 
Because the patient continued to spike a low grade temperature and she had some abnormal liver function tests , we pursued a renal ultrasound to rule out her renal abscess which was negative , as well as a right upper quadrant ultrasound. 
The right upper quadrant ultrasound showed a possible liver mass for which we ordered a followup CT of the abdomen. 
The CT of the abdomen showed normal variant of the shape of the liver , caused by a bowel loop that was anterior to the liver. 
This is unchanged compared to a study that she had in 1996. 
PROBLEM #6 , ANEMIA: On admission the patient was slightly anemic with a hematocrit of 30. 
During her past hospitalizations , the patient always had a hematocrit around 30. 
On this admission her stools were trace guaiac positive. 
She received two units of packed red blood cell transfusion with an appropriate response to a hematocrit of 36. 
GI was consulted. 
However , since the patient was stable with no further decrease in the hematocrit , it was decided that the patient would pursue an outpatient workup of her anemia in terms of colonoscopy. 
PROBLEM #7 , VASCULAR: The patient has a history of peripheral vascular disease on admission. 
The Vascular Surgery service was consulted to help manage refractory cellulitis. 
ABIs were obtained of the right leg which showed 0.5 to 0.6 on the right lower extremity and normal on the left lower extremity which has been previously bypassed. 
Pulse volume recording revealed mildly decreased signal in both the right and left leg. 
The conclusion was that the patient had right femoral popliteal disease with normal resting pressures on the left. 
However , as the patient is not very mobile , she does not complain of any claudication symptoms. 
It was decided that no surgery is indicated for her at this time. 
We used heparin subcutaneous injections as her DVT prophylaxis during her hospitalization. 
PROBLEM #8 , CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE: The patient has congestive heart failure from diastolic dysfunction. 
On examination , she has 1+ edema throughout her body including her upper limbs in the chest area. 
However , attempts at diuresis were aborted due to acute renal failure. 
She continued to diurese on her own without any pharmacologic interventions , as her creatinine improved. 
At this time her Lasix is held because of a small bump in creatinine from likely the contrast in CT as well as in the enalapril. 
Overall , she is total body volume up , however , much improved from admission. 
PROBLEM #9 , TYPE II DIABETES MELLITUS: The patient's blood sugars were poorly controlled during the hospitalization with finger sticks in the high 100s to low 200s. 
This is partially due to the patient's reluctance to take her full dose of NPH Insulin because she is inconsistent with eating. 
She also has a sliding scale to cover her. 
We will encourage her to continue with her full dose of Insulin as she tolerates food better. 
PROBLEM #10 , PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY AND LOW BACK PAIN: The patient's Neurontin dose was reduced to 100 mg t.i.d. from her outpatient dose of 300 mg t.i.d. due to renal insufficiency. 
She also received Diazepam currently at 2.5 mg b.i.d. , reduced from her outpatient dose of 5.5 mg b.i.d. because of renal insufficiency. 
She also requires morphine sulfate on a p.r.n. basis. 
Her pain control is satisfactory at the time of this dictation. 
Dictated By: ROXANNA MOLTER , M.D. VG2 Attending: KATHLYN KAMMERDIENER , M.D. UL28  HB062/3575 Batch: 4229 Index No. FWXJ6BXAC9 D: 3/9 T: 3/9