516880662 | PUO | 11923443 | | 551469 | 2/2/2002 12:00:00 AM | SCIATICA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/11/2002 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 3/27/2002 CHIEF COMPLAINT: Sciatica. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Forty-six-year-old fell out of bed yesterday reaching for something. 
She fell on her coccyx. 
She had no loss of consciousness , no head trauma. 
She was unable to get up secondary to pain and body habitus. 
EMS was called and returned patient to bed , however , she refused to come into the hospital in spite of her pain. 
The following morning she was still with consider lower back and buttock pain radiating to her right leg. 
She took her normal oxycodone and Vicodin doses without relief , and EMS brought the patient to the hospital. 
The patient states that pain is like previous episodes of sciatica , radicular pain , but exacerbated by her fall. 
In the emergency department , patient was afebrile , vital signs stable. 
She received Ativan , Motrin , Dilaudid with little effect. 
Plain films were negative for fracture. 
She was unable to ambulate , and therefore admitted. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , myocardial infarction non-Q-wave September , 2001 , a MICU admission during that time , in September , 2001 , for urosepsis , diabetic ketoacidosis and this non-Q-wave MI. Also , sciatica with previous history of a herniated disc L5-S1 , question obstructive sleep apnea with mild pulmonary hypertension by previous echo. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy complicated by wound infection. 
MEDICATIONS: Zocor , Zestril , aspirin , Toprol , morphine , insulin and Vicodin. 
STUDIES: September , 2001 , MIBI showed an old , moderately sized MI in mid LAD distribution with moderate residual peri-infarct ischemia. 
An September , 2001 , echo showed left ventricular ejection fraction 50% , hypokinesis in the inferior septum , mildly enlarged RV , pulmonary artery pressures of 39 plus RA , suggestive of mild pulmonary hypertension and mild MR and TR. LABORATORY DATA: On admission , labs were significant for a glucose of 121 , creatinine 1.4 , baseline was one , potassium of 5.2 , CK of 355 , a UA with plus two leukocyte esterase , 85 whites , plus two bacteria. 
PHYSICAL EXAM: Patient had temperature of 99 , heart rate 67 , respirations of 17 , blood pressure 130/50 , and saturation 97% on room air. 
She was in no distress. 
She was obese. 
She had no head trauma. 
Her neck was supple , normal S1 , S2. 
Her lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Her abdomen was markedly obese , positive bowel sounds , nontender. 
She had a skin abrasion on her left elbow. 
She had no spinal tenderness , no pelvic tenderness. 
She was unable to raise her right leg secondary to pain. 
She did have pain with straight leg left on the right. 
She had normal sensation in upper and lower extremities. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was admitted and was scheduled to undergo an MRI for evaluation of acutely herniated disc at an outside facility at York , secondary to not being able to fit within the coils at our own facility. 
However , she was unable to receive this MRI secondary to inability to have assistance with transfer of her when she reached the facility. 
Initially , her pain was managed with both immediate-release and sustained-release morphine and Valium for spasm. 
She also received around-the-clock high-dose NSAIDs and was evaluated by physical therapy and nutrition. 
Her UTI was treated with Bactrim. 
On hospital day three , her creatinine jumped to 2.9 from 1.4. 
She was also hyperkalemic to 5.9. 
Her NSAIDs were stopped and Neurontin was DCed secondary to somnolence. 
However , she continued to have worsening renal failure , hypertension and somnolence , and blood gas showed primary respiratory acidosis , hypercarbia and she was ultimately transferred to the MICU for intubation for airway protection secondary to aspiration. 
By April , her creatinine had returned to baseline. 
She was extubated without complications. 
Her renal function was presumed to be secondary high-dose NSAIDs , and her intubation was deemed to be secondary to a primary respiratory acidosis from opioid intoxication exacerbated by renal failure. 
Issues are as follows by systems: Pulmonary: Overnight pulse oximetry was performed , which will be analyzed to assess for obstructive sleep apnea. 
Patient will most likely need a form of sleep study at rehabilitation or as an outpatient to address this obstructive sleep apnea issue. 
Data from this admission do not support a diagnosis of obesity hypoventilation syndrome , because there was no daytime hypercapnia by both ABGs and Chem-7 panel. 
Renal: Acute renal insufficiency resolved with hydration , withdrawal of NSAIDs. 
We will hold her ACE inhibitor secondary to recent renal failure , and she will need to have this evaluated in two weeks or so. 
Infectious disease: The patient with low-grade fevers on empiric Levofloxacin and Flagyl day seven of 14 for aspiration pneumonia suffered during hypocarbic respiratory arrest. 
The patient was also placed on two days of vancomycin , after one of the blood cultures in the ICU grew coagulase negative Staph. 
All cultures since then have been negative. 
Patient also had two episodes of liquid stool on Flagyl , day six. 
She was already receiving therapy for C. difficile. 
Because she has been in the hospital more than three days , an O&amp;P is very low yield. 
Stool cultures and a repeat chest x-ray will be done if clinical worsens tomorrow. 
Neurologic: Patient with known small right lateral recess disc herniation impinging on right nerve root at L5-S1. 
She has previous received steroid injections for this and has refused surgery secondary to very bad experience with the total abdominal hysterectomy complicated by wound infection. 
She has had an acute exacerbation of this pain with her fall. 
We were unable to obtain an MRI at outside facility because of her body habitus and need for assistance with movement. 
She would benefit from aggressive PT and pain control with eventual surgery if these more conservative measures fail. 
Pain: The patient was oversedated on pain medications and was actually intubated for the need to balance desire to alleviate pain with need for patient to have adequate respiratory drive. 
Endocrine: Continue NPH and CZI and ADA diet. 
Will begin Meridia. 
Patient also seen by nutrition and was given number for weight loss program. 
CV: Non-Q-wave MI in September , 2001. 
Patient with preserved EF , no valve disease. 
Will continue current cardiac regimen. 
Will need to restart ACE inhibitor in two to three weeks , now that renal failure resolved. 
Prophylaxis: Subcutaneous Heparin , Protime pump inhibitor , and Dulcolax and Lactulose p.r.n. for constipation while on narcotics. 
Social: I have written a letter regarding the patient's need for first-floor apartment secondary to inability to use stairs. 
It is in her chart. 
Additional comments: Please monitor patient carefully for oversedation on current medications. 
Patient will need sleep study to rule out obstructive sleep apnea. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. six hours for pain , Albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebulizer q. four hours p.r.n. wheeze , aspirin enteric-coated 81 mg p.o. q.d. , Dulcolax 10 mg p.r. q.d. p.r.n. constipation , Valium five mg p.o. t.i.d. muscle spasm , hold if oversedation or respiratory rate less than 10 , and call HO , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fentanyl patch 50 mcg per hour t.p. q. 72 hours , hold respiratory rate less than 10 , oversedation , Heparin 10 , 000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. , NPH Humulin insulin 35 units q.a.m. , 25 units q.p.m. , hold if blood sugar less than 100 , CZI insulin sliding scale subcutaneously , blood sugars less than 200 give 0 units , if blood sugar is 201 to 250 , give four units , if blood sugar is 251 to 300 , give six units , if blood sugar is 301 to 350 give eight units , if blood sugar is 351 to 400 give 10 units and call house officer , magnesium gluconate sliding scale p.o. q.d. , Lopressor , Metoprolol tartrate 37.5 mg p.o. q.i.d. , hold systolic blood pressure less than 90 , heart rate less than 55 , Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x seven more days , oxycodone 10 mg p.o. q. six hours p.r.n. pain , hold oversedation , respiratory rate less than 10 , Senna tablets two tablets p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , Zocor 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Neurontin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , hold oversedation , levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d. x seven days , Micolazole two-percent powder topical t.p. q.d. , instructions - place in skin folds , Nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Trazodone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. sleep. 
Dictated By: DELMAR MATTIONE , M.D. ZK97 Attending: RASHEEDA BRAGAS , M.D. BE55  IG239/457310 Batch: 1548 Index No. CWDUVY45W0 D: 10/8/02 T: 1/6/02