402990568 | PUO | 69687681 | | 263281 | 9/14/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/14/1994 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 8/3/1994 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: UNSTABLE ANGINA/CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1 ) HYPERTENSION. 2 ) HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA. 3 ) TOBACCO USE. 4 ) DIABETES MELLITUS. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 54 year old woman with longstanding hypertension , coronary artery disease ( status post two vessel coronary artery bypass graft in 1992 ) , hypercholesterolemia , positive tobacco use , positive family history for coronary artery disease , adult onset diabetes mellitus , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , peptic ulcer disease ( with history of gastrointestinal bleed ) , and stable angina who presented with rest angina in a crescendo pattern not relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin. 
The patient had no chest pain history until 1992 when she presented with chest pain and had a markedly positive exercise tolerance test. 
She had recurrent typical chest pain and fatigue at 3 minutes and 45 seconds on standard Bruce protocol with a maximal heart rate of 129 , maximal blood pressure 120/80 , and 1 mm ST depressions. 
Patient was treated medically but returned with chest pain at rest. 
Cardiac catheterization revealed single vessel coronary artery disease ( 80% mid right coronary artery ) for which a PTCA was attempted but was complicated by dissection so the patient had an emergent saphenous vein graft to the right coronary artery and LIMA to the left anterior descending. 
Patient was on an intraaortic balloon pump when she developed a cold right lower extremity and had an emergent right femorofemoral bypass. 
The patient did well until 2/11 ( with rare episodes approximately four per year of rest angina which began approximately six months post-coronary artery bypass graft and were all relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin ) when she developed worsening right lower extremity claudication requiring angioplasty. 
In 4/17 , recurrent right lower extremity claudication prompted a femoropopliteal bypass. 
The patient was now currently contemplating repeat femoropopliteal bypass. 
On the day of admission , the patient had an approximately four hour episode of chest pain while visiting with her daughter. 
The patient did not have sublingual nitroglycerin with her at the time. 
Upon returning home , the patient obtained relief with one sublingual nitroglycerin ( patient had described the pain at 9/10 with left chest to axilla pain and no other radiation ). 
The patient was able to sleep. 
The patient awoke in the morning and shortly thereafter , had chest pain which was not relieved with one sublingual nitroglycerin. 
Therefore , the patient came to the Emergency Department. 
The patient had repeat episodes of chest pain while in the Emergency Department and no EKG changes were noted. 
Two sublingual nitroglycerins resolved each episode. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) Longstanding hypertension. 
2 ) Peptic ulcer disease/upper gastrointestinal bleed in the 1970s. 
The patient had an upper GI series/colonoscopy which were negative per the patient. 
The patient had an ongoing stable pattern of gastritis/gastroesophageal reflux disease that was minimized by avoiding fatty foods. 
3 ) Adult onset diabetes mellitus. 
4 ) Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with no hospitalizations or intubations and currently not on any therapy. 
5 ) Hypercholesterolemia. 6 ) Vascular disease as above. 
7 ) Status post herniated disc. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Lopressor 50 mg/25 mg/50 mg , Pepcid 20 b.i.d. , Procardia XL 60 q.d. , enteric coated aspirin 500 mg q.d. , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d. , Elavil 50 mg q.h.s. , and K-Dur 20 mEq q.d. 
ALLERGIES: 1 ) Amoxicillin which caused hives and a rash. 2 ) Fish which caused nausea , vomiting , and pruritus. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient was a retired operating room technician. 
2 ) Patient had significant tobacco use of three packs per day times 35 years decreased to one pack per day in the last two years. 
3 ) Alcohol was none since 1992 with one beer per night prior to that. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: This revealed an obese middle-aged woman who was feisty but in no acute distress. 
Her temperature was 98.2 , heart rate 84 , blood pressure 122/74 , and respiratory rate 16. 
HEENT: Extraocular movements intact , pupils equally round and reactive to light ( but left slower to react ) and oropharynx benign. 
NECK: No lymphadenopathy , thyromegaly without nodular feeling , 2+ carotids without bruits , and jugular venous pressure approximately 7 cm. 
LUNGS: Coarse dry crackles at the bilateral bases with decreased breath sounds throughout. 
CARDIAC: Point of maximal intensity was not appreciated , regular rate and rhythm , normal S1 , S2 was split , and no S3 , S4 , or murmurs. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , non-tender , non-distended , obese with no hepatosplenomegaly , and no femoral artery bruits with 1+ palpable pulses bilaterally. 
EXTREMITIES: Trace pretibial edema bilaterally with 1+ right dorsalis pedis pulse and trace left dorsalis pedis pulse. 
RECTAL: Occult blood negative ( per Emergency Department physician ). 
NEUROLOGICAL: Grossly non-focal except for 4/5 right lower extremity proximal muscle strength , 1+ deep tendon reflexes throughout , and toes downgoing bilaterally. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission was notable for a hematocrit of 49 and first CK of 19. 
Chest x-ray showed no active disease. 
EKG showed a normal sinus rhythm of 90 , axis 70 degrees , normal intervals , no ST or T wave changes , no left ventricular hypertrophy , and no change as compared with 4/17 .  
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was first ruled out for a myocardial infarction and the patient did , in fact , rule out. 
The patient did have some recurrent chest pain episodes in-house , again with no EKG changes , relieved with sublingual nitroglycerin. 
Her anti-ischemic regimen was intensified and the patient underwent a dobutamine MIBI which revealed inferior ischemia with a minimal work-load. 
Cardiac catheterization revealed that her saphenous vein graft to the right coronary artery had stenosed which was successfully PTCA to 20% residual stenosis. 
Slow competitive flow was seen in the LIMA but the LIMA to the left anterior descending was patent. 
The patient did well post-procedure. 
DISPOSITION: Patient is discharged to home with close follow-up by her primary physician. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1 ) Atenolol 100 mg q.d. 2 ) Lasix 40 mg q.d. 3 ) Vasotec 10 mg q.d. 4 ) Nitroglycerin sublingually p.r.n. 5 ) Axid 150 b.i.d. 6 ) Serax 15 mg q.h.s. 7 ) Elavil 50 mg q.h.s. 8 ) Enteric coated aspirin 325 q.d. 9 ) Glipizide 7.5 mg q.a.m. 
Dictated By: JULIANN STASKO , M.D. JW59 Attending: EARNESTINE M. FIERMONTE , M.D. TG7  JM144/1905 Batch: 16190 Index No. ETUWIH4ZOT D: 3/7/96 T: 3/26/96