500428092 | PUO | 11359155 | | 7974526 | 9/25/2006 12:00:00 AM | HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/8/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/12/2006 ATTENDING: REISMAN , CATHIE MINDI MD HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 67-year-old female who is transferred from an outside hospital for further management of her CHF. 
The patient is a 67-year-old female with history of coronary artery disease who was first evaluated back in 2002 when she had a stent placed at CEMH for symptomatic coronary artery disease. 
She reports feeling well until 10/14 when she developed substernal chest burning and pressure and was admitted to Osri Medical Center , where a dobutamine echo was positive for ischemia , details unclear and she was transferred to CEMH for further care. 
At C Enwiram Memorial Hospital , angiography was performed on 8/7/06 with placement of a Cypher stent in her LAD. 
The evening following discharge , the patient reported severe substernal chest pressure and activated her local EMS. 
On the way to the hospital , she suffered a Vfib arrhythmia requiring CPR and 9 defibrillations. 
At Osri Medical Center , she was acutely intervened upon with PTCA and found to have a thrombosed LAD stent. 
At this point , she was transferred to Pagham University Of on an intraaortic balloon pump for support. 
Repeat angiography was performed revealing suboptimal deployment of the initial stent , which was subsequently outsized to a diameter of 3.5 mm and additional stenting was performed distal to the original stent with good anterograde flow noted postprocedure. 
The patient was managed in the CCU , where she remained intubated on the intraaortic balloon pump. 
Hospital course was notable for distributive and cardiogenic shock as well as aspiration pneumonia and HSV , treated with acyclovir. 
She improved after two weeks and was discharged on 5/14/06 with an EF of 40% at the time of discharge. 
The patient was readmitted to Osri Medical Center on 6/16/06 with a CHF exacerbation , was subsequently diuresed and discharged on 1/27/06 .  
Echocardiography at that time demonstrated an EF of 55% with 2 to 3+ MR and RVSP of 45 mmHg. 
The patient represented to Osri Medical Center on 9/23/06 reporting progressive dyspnea , weight gain , PND , orthopnea and cough. 
At that time , she underwent repeat angiography demonstrating RA 14 , RV 55/13 , PA 61/25/42 , PCWP 35 with V 246 , LHC with AO 86/57. 
Angiography revealed a right dominant circulation and LMCA , which was patent , LAD 20% mid , D1 40% , ostial left circumflex 20% mid , RCA 60% prox , LV gram with an EF of 25% associated with global hypokinesis and severe MR. 
The patient was subsequently transferred to Totin Hospital And Clinic for further management of her advanced heart failure. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant in addition to above for hypertension , type 2 diabetes on insulin , obesity , COPD , hyperlipidemia , GERD , hypothyroidism , depression , status post appendectomy and status post cholecystectomy. 
MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER: Include aspirin 325 daily , Lasix 80 mg IV b.i.d. , Diovan 160 mg daily , Plavix 75 mg daily , levothyroxine 88 mcg daily , Lipitor 20 mg daily , Zetia 10 mg daily , Aldactone 25 mg daily , Protonix 20 mg daily , Advair 500/50 one puff daily and insulin 70/30 , 30 units subq b.i.d. 
ALLERGIES: Include erythromycin. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her husband and works in a clothing company. 
She smokes 1-2 packs per day x46 years until nine years ago. 
No alcohol use. 
No illicits. 
No premature cardiac catheterization. 
Mother died of cervical cancer. 
Father died of alcoholism. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , hemoptysis , bright red blood per rectum , hematochezia , or melena , no chest pain or palpitations. 
Positive for cough and shortness of breath. 
No changes in mental status or loss of consciousness , no dysuria , no exposures. 
No recent travel. 
No presyncope or dizziness. 
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Notable for creatinine of 1 from baseline of 0.7 to 0.8. 
Hematocrit of 34 , baseline 37. ALT 68 , AST 33 and alkaline phosphatase 384 down from 616 on last admission. 
INR 1. EKG , sinus rhythm at 90 , normal axis intervals with old anterior septal MI. PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Notable for afebrile , heart rate in the 90s , blood pressure 98/60 , respiratory rate 18-20 , satting 98% on 3 liters. 
The patient was in no acute distress , pleasant , resting comfortably. 
Oropharynx clear. 
JVP 10 cm with 2+ carotids without bruits. 
No thyromegaly , no lymphadenopathy. 
Decreased breath sounds with bibasilar crackles with prolonged expiratory phase and intermittent expiratory wheezing. 
Regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2. Notable S3 , no MR appreciated. 
Abdomen was obese , distended , soft , nontender , no hepatosplenomegaly. 
Positive bowel sounds. 
Extremities , 1+ lower extremity edema to the shins with 1+ DP and PT pulses bilaterally. 
Pretibial erythema , right greater than left. 
No other rashes. 
Right groin minimally tender without bruit. 
Cath site clean , dry , intact. 
Neurologic exam is nonfocal. 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: In summary , this is a 67-year-old female with multiple cardiac risk factors including hypertension , hyperlipidemia , diabetes , coronary artery disease status post LAD stent complicated by a subacute thrombosis with marked left ventricular dysfunction with a reportedly revascularized right coronary territory and severe MR on repeat echo. 
Despite diuresis at the outside hospital , the patient remained volume overloaded with biventricular failure on exam. 
The patient was admitted to medically optimized heart failure regimen to further clarify component of mitral regurgitation. 
Repeat TTE and right and left heart catheterization to further evaluate and optimize medical management. 
The patient was maintained on aspirin , Plavix , ARB , statin and Zetia. 
Beta-blocker was continued at low dose given decompensated state. 
Adenosine MIBI was completed , which was notable for recovery 1 mm ST depressions in leads II , III and aVF , which resolved. 
There is no further evidence of ischemia. 
EF was notable to be severely depressed; however , moderate MR on outside hospital echo was not reproducible here. 
Cardiovascular surgery was initially consulted to further evaluate for benefit of mitral valve replacement surgery; however , this will likely not be of benefit given mild MR on repeat echo. 
In addition a contrast echo was performed to further evaluate for evidence of clot given the severe right ventricle malfunction , and anticoagulation was started; however , there was no evidence of clot on echo. 
In addition , on echo , reevaluated for dyssynchrony , which was negative. 
The patient was diuresed with IV Lasix until near euvolemic and then transitioned to p.o. regimen. 
The patient was maintained on Aldactone. 
The EP service evaluated for possible placement of AICD versus biventricular pacemaker; however , given the patient is not yet outside of three-month window and was noninducible on EP study , she will need close monitoring as an outpatient with repeat echo in 2 months and a further EP study to readdress. 
The patient will be anticoagulated in the meantime. 
Respiratory: The patient has history of COPD with no evidence of acute exacerbation. 
Inhalers were continued. 
PFTs and VO2 study may be considered as an outpatient. 
Renal: Creatinine was mildly elevated compared with baseline , likely secondary to mild dye nephropathy and overaggressive diuresis. 
Creatinine stabilized , will need to be followed closely as an outpatient as well as electrolytes. 
GI. 
The patient was maintained on a bowel regimen. 
LFTs were elevated on admission consistent with right heart failure versus statin. 
LFTs trended down on admission. 
Hemoglobin and hematocrit remained stable at baseline. 
The patient will remain on heparin to Coumadin bridge with Lovenox bridge as an outpatient if needed. 
Endocrine: The patient has a history of poorly controlled diabetes and was maintained on insulin as an inpatient with sliding scale coverage. 
History of hypothyroidism , on Levoxyl. 
TSH within normal limits. 
ID: No acute issues. 
The patient was treated for asymptomatic bacteriuria secondary to possible permanent pacemaker placement. 
She developed itchiness , which is likely secondary to the Bactrim. 
Provided supportive care , the patient should avoid Bactrim in the future secondary to intolerance. 
No serious reactions were observed. 
Psychiatric: The patient has a history of depression. 
She was continued on home medications. 
FEN: The patient was maintained on a cardiac diet with sodium and volume restriction , K mag scales. 
Nutrition was consulted. 
Dermatologic: The patient has a history of HSV , status post acyclovir treatment. 
No evidence of further infection. 
The patient had pretibial erythema , which derm was consulted for , which they felt was consistent with venous stasis. 
She improved with steroid cream and compression. 
The patient was prophylaxed with Protonix and heparin. 
The patient was instructed to follow up with cardiology , weigh herself daily with careful notice to weight gain reporting to the physician and to returne to the ED with worsening shortness of breath or chest pain. 
The patient was instructed to follow a fluid restricted , low-fat , low-cholesterol diet as well as a restricted sodium diet. 
She will follow up with her PCP Dr. Mangold at 771-077-6316 on 1/4/06 at 2:45. 
Dr. Raabe at 575-803-4363 on 3/12/06 at 3:45. 
INR will be drawn on 1/1/06 with followup INRs to be drawn every five days. 
INRs will be followed by PCP. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Include aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , albuterol 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fluoxetine 20 mg p.o. daily , Lasix 80 mg p.o. daily , insulin NPH 35 units subq b.i.d. , regular insulin sliding scale , the patient will not be discharged on the last sliding scale med , levothyroxine 88 mcg p.o. daily , nortriptyline 50 mg p.o. at bedtime , oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. pain , spironolactone 25 mg daily , Coumadin 5 mg daily , simvastatin 20 mg daily , Toprol-XL 25 mg daily , Ambien 5 mg p.o. daily p.r.n. insomnia , Diovan 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Plavix 75 mg daily , Advair 500/50 one puff inhaled b.i.d. , esomeprazole 20 mg p.o. daily and Zetia 10 mg p.o. daily. 
eScription document: 8-9847457 HFFocus Dictated By: YEAGLEY , MA Attending: REISMAN , CATHIE MINDI Dictation ID 9748828 D: 1/1/06 T: 1/1/06