474827665 | PUO | 79422241 | | 8704916 | 10/16/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/4/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 8/17/2005 ATTENDING: QUIRARTE , VICTORIA M.D. SERVICE: General Medical Service , Hassprai Birm Ven ADMIT DIAGNOSIS: Congestive heart failure. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: Congestive heart failure , aortic valve and mitral valve dysfunction. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Shortness of breath. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is 59-year-old female who is status post mitral valve repair , aortic valve repair , history of endocarditis , history of rheumatic heart disease , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and congestive heart failure who presents with increasing shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting , and abdominal pain. 
She has been under significant stress at home since last summer and notes slowly declining health since that time. 
She has had increasing shortness of breath as well as dyspnea on exertion since September 2004 and has gotten worse in the past one month , and even significantly worse in the past week. 
The patient notes increasing lower extremity edema on the right side greater than the left. 
She states that this is her baseline with the right side being more than the left. 
She has no increase in her abdominal girth , the patient has two-to three-pillow orthopnea ( from one-pillow orthopnea , one month ago ) , she does have some paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , she has no increased nocturia. 
The patient notes that the shortness of breath is "not angina; I do not have that." 
She does not have any lightheadedness , diaphoresis , or radiation of pain. 
The patient says that she does not check her weigh at home , but "knows" she is in failure when she is short of breath. 
She also notes nausea , vomiting , and some abdominal pain stating that it started about a week and a half ago. 
She had gone to see the ED on the Sunday prior to admission where the patient reportedly had a benign exam , low-grade temperature , given recent Levaquin for an upper respiratory tract infection , she was then started on Flagyl for a possible C. difficile infection. 
The patient's diarrhea stopped , but she had still remained some abdominal pain and increased cough , which was nonproductive. 
She went to her PCP on the day of admission for increasing shortness of breath and was sent to the ED for diuresis. 
In the ED , she was given 60 mg of IV Lasix with good output per report. 
She did have some decrease in her shortness of breath shortly thereafter. 
She also complained of 10/10 abdominal pain and was given some Dilaudid. 
On the floor during the interview , she did have some projectile vomiting. 
She was able to pass gas. 
She reported no fevers , chills , or night sweats. 
She reported no bright red blood per rectum. 
She reported no change in her bowel , bladder , or urinary habits. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Rheumatic heart disease , status post mitral valve repair and aortic valve repair. 
In 1981 , she had porcine mitral valve repair. 
In 1991 , she had St. Jude valve , mitral valve , and AVR. 2. Endocarditis in 1991 and porcine mitral valve. 
3. Diabetes mellitus. 
4. Hypertension. 5. Status post ankle fracture and subsequent ORIF in 2001. 
6. Status post ventral hernia repair. 
7. Status post laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
8. Status post breast biopsy. 
9. Congestive heart failure. 
10. 
Atrial fibrillation. 
11. 
TIA. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
Dove soap does give her hives. 
MEDICATIONS: 1. Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.o.d. alternating with 80 mg p.o. Lasix q.o.d. 2. Digoxin 0.125 mg q.o.d. alternating with 0.25 q.o.d. 3. Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. 4. Coumadin 6 mg p.o. q.o.d. , alternating with 4 mg q.o.d. 5. Omeprazole 20 mg b.i.d. 6. Metformin 500 mg daily. 
7. Insulin 70/30 65 units q.a.m. , 35 units q.p.m. 8. Calcium 600 mg p.o. b.i.d. 9. Magnesium 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. 10. 
Multivitamin. 
11. 
Iron tablets. 
12. Actonel every Wednesday. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient quit smoking in 2001. 
Her maximum was three to four packs per day for 35 years. 
As far as her alcohol history , she drinks occasional alcohol. 
She does not take any illicit drugs. 
She used to work as a hairdresser. 
She has had increased stress at home secondary to a son who has schizophrenia and another son who abuses drugs and has violent tendencies. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Vital signs are remarkable for temperature of 98.7 , pulse 60 , blood pressure 111/61 , respiratory rate 30 , O2 saturation 96% on room air. 
These were vitals when the patient arrived to the floor. 
General: She is alert and oriented x3. 
She is anxious , but pleasant in nature. 
HEENT: Her left eye is artificial. 
Her right eye is approximately 3 mm. 
She has moist mucous membrane. 
She has a small erosion on the right upper gum. 
There is no erythema or exudate seen within the tonsils. 
Neck: JVP noted to be approximately 6 cm. 
Her neck is supple. 
There was full range of motion. 
There are no carotid bruits and there is no lymphadenopathy present. 
Cardiovascular: Heart is of regular rate and rhythm with occasional premature beats. 
She has a S1 and S2 that are mechanical in nature. 
She has a 3/6 holosystolic murmur heard at the apex. 
There are no rubs or gallops appreciated. 
She additionally has a right RV heave. 
Her PMI is diffuse , but nondisplaced. 
Chest: Faint crackles at the left base , otherwise clear. 
No wheezes or rhonchi are heard. 
Abdomen: Slightly tympanic. 
Her right lower quadrant is slightly tender. 
She has active bowel sounds. 
Her liver edge is not palpable. 
The spleen tip is nonpalpable. 
Extremities: Warm , 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally. 
She does have some 1+ lower extremity edema on the right greater than the left. 
It is slightly pitting. 
LABORATORY EXAM ON ADMISSION: Sodium 126 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 93 , bicarbonate 24 , BUN 28 , creatinine 1.4 with a baseline of 1.2 and 1.3 , glucose 160. 
CBC is notable for a white blood cell count of 9.9 , hematocrit 27.9 , platelet count 274 , 000. 
Her liver function tests are notable for ALT 56 , AST 83 , alkaline phosphatase is 52 , total bilirubin 0.1 , albumin 4.2 , and total protein 7.4. 
STUDIES: Her EKG showed no change. 
It was in junctional rhythm at 65 beats per minute. 
She had frequent PVCs. 
There was a normal access. 
There were some nonspecific T-wave inversions. 
CHEST X-RAY: Showed mild vascular congestion. 
There was no evidence of any effusion. 
IMPRESSION: This is a 59-year-old female with a rheumatic heart disease , status post St. Jude's MVR and AVR , congestive heart failure who presents with mild volume overload and abdominal pain with nausea and vomiting. 
BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: 1. Cardiovascular: a. Ischemia: When the patient was admitted , she was ruled out for an MI. 
She did have a slight increase of her troponins , which were attributed to mild demand ischemia. 
In addition , she had some slight anemia , which could also be contributed to the demand as well in addition to the clear volume overload. 
She did fine from the standpoint , had no ST changes on any of her EKGs. 
The patient laid her head workup for future AVR and MVR with the Surgical Service , with Dr. Stukowski . 
Her workup was extensive and included a cardiac catheterization , which showed no significant coronary artery disease. 
The hemodynamics were notable for the following: RA of 12 , PA of 92/23/44 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 22 with V waves to 42. 
The mitral valve was grossly normal with appropriate leaflet motion. 
The AV was also grossly. 
The overall conclusion was elevated right-sided heart pressures. 
She had no evidence of major atherosclerotic disease of the coronary arteries. 
b. Pump: Please see cath report as above. 
The patient was admitted and diuresed with IV Lasix , so she came down to a euvolemic state. 
Her diuresis was continued with 80 mg IV Lasix on a b.i.d. basis. 
She was diuresed until there was a subsequent bump in her creatinine to 1.8 , 1.9. 
After that point , diuresis was slowly modified. 
She was then placed back on a regimen of 120 mg of p.o. Lasix q.o.d. 
That is the dosing of Lasix on which she is discharged. 
c. Rhythm: The patient has a history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation that has been rate controlled with a beta-blocker. 
On admission , her digoxin was stopped. 
She was evaluated by the EP Service. 
They recommended epicardial lead placement at surgery due to her tachybrady syndrome. 
The patient was discharged on diltiazem 30 mg q.i.d. 
She will have her medications modified status post her valvular repair in the very near future. 
d. Presurgical workup: In addition to echo , right and left heart cath , the patient had a TEE performed. 
TEE showed normal left atrial appendage without evidence of localized thrombus. 
St. Jude's valve was well seated in the aortic position. 
There was no significant aortic regurg that was noted. 
A St. Jude's valve was well seated in the mitral position as well. 
There was trace mild regurgitation noted. 
There was slight asynchronous motion of the prosthetic valve apparatus that was noted. 
The tricuspid valve was normal in appearance. 
There was mild regurgitation present. 
Visualized portion of the thoracic aorta revealed minimal atheromatous plaque. 
2. Pulmonary: The patient remained stable from her pulmonary standpoint. 
She continued to sat well on room air. 
She did not required any nebulizers during her stay. 
3. GI: The patient was initially admitted with some abdominal pain and also nausea and vomiting. 
She had a KUB performed for a question of potential bowel obstruction. 
A single frontal view of the abdomen was obtained and is reported in the final radiology report. 
There was gas seen within the loops of small bowel as well as the colon. 
There is no bowel dilatation seen. 
The overall impression was no evidence of any high-grade bowel obstruction. 
It is likely that some of her pain was secondary to hepatic congestion. 
The nausea and vomiting eventually resolved and perhaps this is some type of viral illness or gastroenteritis. 
She did have some episode of diarrhea prior to admission along with some abdominal cramping. 
The patient was continued on her PPI for GERD prophylaxis. 
At one point , she required increasing her dosage of Nexium secondary to GERD-like symptoms. 
It seemed that increasing the amount of Nexium she received , precipitated some diarrhea. 
She was returned to a normal dosing of Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. while in-house. 
She was discharged on omeprazole 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , which she will continue to take as an outpatient. 
In addition , she was given prescription for Colace and also Senokot today. 
She should continue using. 
4. Heme: Her hematocrit remained relatively stable during her stay with averaging of 26 to 27 as far as her hematocrit. 
We were not concerned with keeping her hematocrit 30 or above at all times given her clean coronary arteries seen from the left and also right heart catheterization. 
She did have a slight dip in her hematocrit at one point requiring two units of packed red blood cells. 
Her hematocrit bumped appropriately to 30 or 31. 
She required no subsequent transfusions thereafter. 
With regard to anticoagulation , she was placed on the heparin drip at 950 units per hour to maintain a PTT between 60 and 80 secondary to her mechanical valves that are in place. 
On discharge , the patient was transitioned to Lovenox 60 mg b.i.d. with a renal dosing. 
She will continue to take this Lovenox as an outpatient and stop it one to two days prior to her surgery as instructed. 
She has home VNA in place. 
5. Renal: Her BUN and creatinine was relatively stable on admission. 
It did elevate to as high as 3.3 , 3.4 on her admission secondary to her ongoing diuresis. 
When diuresis was held for several days given her markedly increased urine output and as she became more hydrated and euvolemic , her creatinine returned to its baseline of 1.2 , 1.3. 
She has no active issues now. 
6. Endocrine: We appreciated the Diabetes Service for following her very closely while in-house. 
Several modifications were made to her regimen while here to get good control of her blood glucose. 
She was maintained on a stable regimen of NPH 60 units in the morning , NPH 30 units in the evening. 
She also was placed on a sliding scale. 
She also received NovoLog of 15 units in the morning with breakfast and also 15 at dinner. 
She was not receiving any of the NovoLog while at lunch. 
She will continue to take this regimen in home. 
All of her prescriptions were provided by Bruce Amadon , who is following with the Diabetes Service. 
They will become again involved with her care as she plans for surgery in the very near future. 
7. Infectious disease: The patient was stable from an ID standpoint during her entire admission. 
On September , 2005 , the patient was noted to have an increase in her white blood cell count upwards towards the 20 , 000. 
This was one day prior to a planned surgery on April , 2005 with Dr. Stukowski to repair her aortic valve and also her mitral valve. 
The surgery was delayed as a result of this , so an infectious workup could ensue. 
She had a urine sent that showed , the suggestion of a urinary tract infection. 
Levaquin was given for treatment of her UTI. 
Surveillance cultures were drawn daily. 
Given the fact that she had a right groin hematoma that performed after the heart catheterization we questioned whether or not this could be some type of infectious source. 
She had the hematoma aspirated , it was negative for any organisms. 
She had no other identified places as far as source of infection. 
It was believed that she could potential have endocarditis as she has had in the past. 
One of her cultures actually grew out a species of Abiotrophia. 
There is only one culture positive , that was taken on February .  
She has had no subsequent cultures growing out at the time of this dictation. 
We appreciate the Infectious Disease Team following. 
Their recommendations were to hold antibiotics unless subsequent cultures began to grow out. 
Their recommendations were to continue to follow all cultures and to perform a TEE. 
A repeat TEE was performed and showed no evidence of any lesions or change in bowel function. 
There were clearly no vegetation seen on either any transthoracic echos or TEEs. 
ID made recommendations as far as perioperative antibiotics , which would include two weeks of ceftriaxone 1 g IV b.i.d. under the assumption that this would be completing a course of her therapy after SBE. 
They would also recommend sending all valve tissue for Gram stain and culture as well as pathology. 
If the Gram stain and culture were positive , they would suggest extending the course of the above-mentioned antibiotic therapy. 
8. Neurologic: The patient was given Darvon and also codeine as needed for her pain. 
She complained of right groin pain secondary to the hematoma. 
Her pain is much improved that she is able to ambulate easily around the Ma Stin Den on discharge. 
The hematoma is resolving and her pain is resolving as well. 
9. Fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: The patient is tolerating p.o. well. 
Her electrolytes were repleted as needed daily. 
10. 
Psychologic: The patient was seen by social work. 
It is clear that she has many anxieties about the surgery and also in going home and returning to her social environment. 
She necessitated volume prior to many procedures given her severe anxiety. 
11. 
Disposition: The patient is stable from a medical standpoint with all cultures clear and no evidence of active infection. 
Her white blood cell count is now normal. 
She is now awaiting surgical repair of her valve and will have a surgery scheduled with Dr. Haegele office in the next one to two weeks. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Diltiazem 30 mg p.o. q.6h. 
2. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 3. Lasix 120 mg p.o. q. other day. 
4. NPH 60 units in the morning. 
5. NPH 30 units in the evening. 
6. Lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q. day. 
7. Senokot three tablets p.o. b.i.d. 8. Multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d. 9. Lovenox 60 mg subcutaneously b.i.d. 10. 
Caltrate plus vitamin D 600 mg one tablet p.o. b.i.d. 11. 
NovoLog sliding scale q.a.c. and h.s. 12. NovoLog 15 units subcutaneously with breakfast and dinner did not give at lunch. 
13. 
Maalox tablets quick dissolve. 
14. 
Codeine 15 mg to 30 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
15. 
Magnesium oxide 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. 16. 
Omeprazole 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. 17. Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
FOLLOW-UP PLANS: 1. 
The patient was given instructions to call Dr. Haegele office to coordinate her appointment for her valve repair in the next one to two weeks pending her surgeon's return. 
2. The patient instructed to call Dr. Victoria Quirarte on January , 2005 , to discuss surgical plans and also to follow up. 
3. The patient should have all her blood cultures followed up prior to her surgery. 
If any of her blood cultures become positive in the interim , we will begin a long course of antibiotic therapy and delay surgery at the discussion of the Cardiovascular Service. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. 
eScription document: 5-8492613 IS Dictated By: QUELLA , STACEY Attending: QUIRARTE , VICTORIA Dictation ID 9017225 D: 10/4/05 T: 7/16/05