995906475 | PUO | 07554150 | | 372680 | 11/15/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/14/1996 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 11/29/1996 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: RESTRICTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE. 
OTHER DIAGNOSES: 1 ) OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA. 2 ) CHRONIC HYPOXIA. 3 ) STATUS POST HYPERCARBIC RESPIRATORY ARREST. 
4 ) OBESITY. 5 ) MILD HYPERTENSION. 
6 ) RECURRENT LOWER EXTREMITY DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSES. 
7 ) OSTEOARTHRITIS SECONDARY TO MECHANICAL DERANGEMENTS SECONDARY TO OBESITY. 
8 ) TYPE II DIABETES MELLITUS. 
9 ) DEPRESSION. HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 51 year-old morbidly obese black female with a history of restrictive lung disease , obstructive sleep apnea , recurrent lower extremity deep venous thromboses requiring multiple hospitalizations who was initially evaluated on March , 1996 for right knee pain. 
Evaluation revealed a small right knee effusion consistent with mechanical derangement secondary to obesity. 
The tap was negative for crystals and had negative cultures. 
The patient was initially supposed to go home , however due to inadequate support , she was kept overnight on the evening of September , 1996. 
Overnight she received Vistaril , Percocet as well as some Demerol and Oxycodone. 
On the morning of March , 1996 , she was found to be unresponsive with bloody saliva dripping from her mouth. 
A Code Green was called. 
They were unable to find a blood pressure. 
The patient was intubated. 
Dopamine was started. 
Narcan was given. 
The blood pressure recovered. 
The patient awakened and the patient's initial arterial blood gas prior to intubation was 7.04 pH , pCO2 137 and pO2 of 85 and she was subsequently admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Her past medical history is significant for a restrictive lung disease. 
Past pulmonary function tests revealed an FEV of 1.8 which is in the 56th percentile and FEV1 of 1.6 which is in the 59th percentile , TLC of 3.3 in the 54th percentile and DLCO at 116th percentile. 
She has been on long term home oxygen with oxygen saturation between 85% and 90% on two liters of nasal cannula. 
Arterial blood gases on prior admissions have revealed pO2 in 50 , pCO2 in the high 40s to low 50s. 
She has a history of obstructive sleep apnea. 
She has been evaluated in the past with even trace apnea screen in August of 1994 which revealed approximately 19 apnea events in just over 10 hours. 
The oxygen saturation decreased to 61% at the minimum and subsequently she had respiratory monitoring in September of 1995 with C-PAP which revealed a decrease in the apnea episodes to 19 events in about 480 minutes with oxygen saturation decreasing to a minimum of 71%. 
Apparently , by report , attempts had been made to start the patient on the C-PAP at home , but the patient had been resistant and she has a long history of medical non-compliance. 
She has a history of recurrent deep venous thromboses in which she has had multiple medical admissions , most recently about six in the past year , most recently in October of 1996 , for cellulitis of the left lower extremity , in July of 1996 , bilateral calf tenderness with negative non-invasive studies and in September of 1996 , most recently with right lower extremity cellulitis and this was complicated by apparent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare. 
The patient has had multiple VQ scans in the past , all of which have been low probability. 
The patient has been on chronic Coumadin , however there is a question of whether or not , she has been taking it regularly. 
There has also been a question in the past of possible diastolic dysfunction. 
In September of 1994 , she had an echocardiogram which showed some left ventricular hypertrophy , no regional wall motion abnormalities and an ejection fraction of approximately 55% , no right ventricular hypertrophy or tricuspid regurgitation. 
Other past medical history includes a history of depression. 
The patient has been managed with Zoloft 50 mg p.o. q. day. 
She is status post midline hernia repair. 
She is status post bilateral tubal ligation. 
The patient has chronic hypoxemia , obesity , obstructive sleep apnea , chronic lower extremity deep venous thromboses and obstructive lung disease. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1 ) Diltiazem 120 mg p.o. q. day. 2 ) Glyburide 10 mg p.o. q. day. 
3 ) Albuterol 2 puffs q.i.d. p.r.n. 4 ) K-Dur 20 mEq p.o. q. day. 
5 ) Axid 150 mg p.o. q.h.s. 6 ) Zoloft 50 mg p.o. q. day. 
7 ) Lasix 20 mg p.o. q. day. 
8 ) Coumadin alternating 10 mg with 7.5 mg p.o. q. day. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Significant for the patient living alone. 
She occasional has her son stay with her. 
She is divorced and she has refused chronic care in the past. 
HABITS: Positive for cigarettes about a 20 pack year history. 
No alcohol , no intravenous drugs. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1 ) Pulmonary: The patient was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit on March , 1996 status post a respiratory arrest thought to be secondary to hypercarbia through the combination of the patient's underlying lung disease as well as excessive sedation. 
She was intubated on March , 1996 and quickly extubated on April , 1996 without complications. 
Her chest x-ray on admission was significant for a mild interstitial pulmonary edema and cardiomegaly. 
After extubation , the patient was weaned to bi-PAP with which she was able to maintain saturations between 86-90% while in the Medical Intensive Care Unit. 
The patient was transferred to the floor on February , 1996. 
Given the patient's history of restrictive lung disease , it was thought that it was time to have a full work-up to search for a possible etiologies , questioning possible obesity vs. parenchymal disease. 
She had an echocardiogram on August , 1996 , which revealed an ejection fraction of 75% , mild left ventricular hypertrophy , no regional wall motion abnormalities , a top normal sized right ventricle , trace tricuspid insufficiency and a suggested pulmonary arterial pressure in the range of 36 mm of Mercury plus the estimated right atrial pressure. 
This echocardiogram was performed with a bubble study and there was no obvious intra-cardiac shunt either by color doppler or saline infusion. 
They were unable to exclude diastolic dysfunction given the presence of left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Her chest CT on August , 1996 was significant for cardiomegaly and pulmonary edema , patchy opacities in the right apex and lung bases with a nodular quality of unclear etiology and a lucent lesion in the right lobe of the liver that was too small to characterize. 
In order to further help sort out the etiology of her restrictive lung disease , the patient underwent a PA gram on September , 1996 to rule out the possibility of chronic pulmonary emboli. 
This study revealed no evidence of pulmonary emboli. 
She had a normal pulmonary vascular distribution , elevated right heart pressures with pulmonary arterial pressure of 44/13 with a mean of 28 mm of Mercury , right ventricular pressure 52/2 with a mean of 20 mm of Mercury and a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 23. 
The Pulmonary Service had been consulted and it was thought that it was difficult to sort out exactly what was going on. 
It was unclear what the nodular lesions described on the CT represented , whether it was inflammation or some sort of firm nodule. 
It was decided to follow-up on the CT in the future and to have the patient had a repeat sleep study as well as repeat pulmonary function tests. 
The overall impression was that her restrictive lung disease was most likely secondary to obesity. 
While the patient was on the floor , we attempted to restart her on the bi-PAP , however the patient resisted using both the C-PAP and the bi-PAP practically every night complaining that she had an upper respiratory infection that made it difficult for her to wear the machine. 
On the evening that she did actually try both the C-PAP and the bi-PAP , she was noted to have labored breathing with the C-PAP at 5 mm of Mercury and four liters nasal cannula with a pulse oximetry dropping to 81%. 
When she switched to bi-PAP with settings of 12 mm of Mercury inspiratory and 7 mm of Mercury expiratory , she was able to maintain oxygen saturations between 88% and as high as 93% oxygen saturation. 
Her oxygen saturations throughout hospitalization ranged between 91-93% on two liters nasal cannula during the day and as well as 88% overnight. 
It was decided that the patient given her history would require bi-PAP on discharge as well as her home oxygen. 2 ) Infectious Disease: The patient as noted above spiked a temperature to 101 degrees on March , 1996 while in the Medical Intensive Care Unit and subsequently never had elevated temperatures nor an elevated white blood cell count. 
She was started on Clindamycin and Ofloxacin intravenously and then switched to p.o. on February , 1996 to complete a ten day course. 
On March , 1996 , the patient as stated , remained afebrile throughout her hospitalization and never had an elevated white blood cell count. 
She did complain of upper respiratory symptoms beginning on February , 1996 described as general head fullness , sinus tenderness and nasal congestion. 
She was started on Afrin 2 puffs b.i.d. for three days with some relief as well as Robitussin and Sudafed. 
Her physical examination was notable some maxillary sinusitis and the patient was actually discharged after a brief time on Afrin nasal spray. 
3 ) Cardiovascular: Echocardiogram was performed during this admission and is as described above. 
The patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout this admission. 
4 ) Hematology: The patient had a history of recurrent lower extremity deep venous thromboses. 
She was maintained on Heparin until all of her procedures had been completed and was restarted on Coumadin on September , 1996. 
Her PT and PTT were followed until the point that she had established a therapeutic INR. 
On August , 1996 , her PT and PTT were notable for a PT of 17.5 with a PTT of greater than 200 and INR of 2.2. 
Heparin was discontinued and a repeat PTT on the evening of July , 1996 revealed a PT of 18.5 and a PTT of 67.6 and an INR of 2.5. 
She was discharged the next day on 7.5 mg of Coumadin q.h.s. 
Of note , the patient had been admitted with about a 2 X 2 cm ulcer of her medial left malleolus which appeared to heal well with granulation and scarred by the time she had been discharged. 
5 ) Rheumatology: The patient as noted was admitted for evaluation of right knee pain. 
The patient did not complain of right pain subsequent to her discharge from the Medical Intensive Care Unit. 
Her cultures and crystals were negative and she is to follow-up as an outpatient with the Rheumatologist in their clinic. 
6 ) Endocrine: The patient maintained stable bowel sounds on Glyburide 10 mg p.o. q. day. 
7 ) Gastrointestinal: The patient remained stable and was able to tolerate a low cholesterol , low saturated fat diet and was maintained on Axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
However , on the date of discharge , the patient was complaining of a burning sensation in her throat after drinking orange juice which tended to come and go , but did not radiate and she was switched from Axid to Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day on March , 1996. 
8 ) Gynecology: While on the floor , the patient started complaining of some vaginal spotting. 
She has menopausal since her 40s and has had not had any recent gynecological following. 
It was decided for the patient to either follow-up with her primary care physician or with the GYN clinic at A Salt Medical Center for evaluation of this spotting for ruling out endometrial carcinoma. 
9 ) Neurological: The patient did not demonstrate any evidence of depression and was stable on Zoloft. 10 ) General Care: The patient underwent Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy throughout the hospitalization. 
It was thought that she would benefit greatly from inpatient pulmonary rehabilitation or possibly weight loss reduction , however the patient repeatedly declined pulmonary rehabilitation and weight loss reduction and felt that she would be able to manage herself at home. 
The patient was discharged on March , 1996 in stable condition to home with VNA services to follow-up on her blood sugars , her home oxygen as well as her bi-PAP. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1 ) Lasix 20 mg p.o. q. day. 2 ) Glyburide 10 mg p.o. q. day. 
3 ) Procardia XL 30 mg p.o. q. day. 
4 ) Zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. 5 ) Coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 6 ) Ofloxacin 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. times one day. 
7 ) Clindamycin 200 mg p.o. q. 6h. times one day. 
8 ) Prilosec 20 mg p.o. q. day. 
9 ) Potassium chloride slow release 20 mEq p.o. q. day. 
10 ) Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 4-6h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
11 ) Maalox 50 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. indigestion. 
12 ) Albuterol inhaler 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing. 
13 ) Afrin 2 puffs b.i.d. times three days. 
FOLLOW-UP: The patient is to follow-up with Dr. Verlie Jeniffer Swanda on August , 1996. 
She also had an appointment on January , 1996 with the GYN Clinic. 
Pulmonary follow-up is as follows: On February , 1996 at 9:00 AM , she is to have a repeat CT to follow-up the nodularities found on the most recent CT. On February , 1996 at 10:30 AM , she is to have a pulmonary function test and to follow-up at 11:30 AM with the Pulmonary Clinic. 
She is to call Rheumatology at her convenience. 
The patient was to proceed with bi-PAP , however due to the need for medical assistance , she may not receive it for another two weeks and is to continue with her home oxygen. 
Dictated By: GERTHA M. LESCHES , M.D. IJ16 Attending: DEVIN MARISHA CARLA BRADY , M.D. GQ9  LU795/0185 Batch: 09824 Index No. BRNSS68K4Z D: 9/7/96 T: 5/29/96 CC: 1. VERLIE J. EVIE SWANDA , M.D. UV35 2. JULIANA MICHON , M.D. KTDUOO CLINIC IN Westjer Minewsnash