537124853 | PUO | 72340071 | | 3106821 | 11/3/2006 12:00:00 AM | RESPIRATORY FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/4/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 8/30/2006 ATTENDING: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE M.D. CHIEF COMPLAINT/REASON FOR ADMISSION: Confusion , mental status change , and hypercarbic respiratory failure. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 54-year-old woman with history of asthma/COPD , morbid obesity , obstructive sleep apnea , but does not tolerate BiPAP who presented to the emergency room with worsening somnolence. 
Apparently over the past week the patient has become progressively more confused and lethargic. 
At baseline , she is alert and oriented and walks intermittently with walker , although , at most time she is bedbound because of her obesity and an injured knee at the end of October .  
Over the previous week apparently , the patient had difficulty with her home oxygen machine and she felt like she "was not getting any air". 
Apparently , her son had called the company that supplies the oxygen. 
They had come in and said that he should figure out how to fix it according to him , as she had not been getting oxygen for the week prior to admission. 
She had not had any increase in cough or sputum production. 
No fever or chills. 
No chest pain. 
No nausea , vomiting , or diarrhea. 
She also had not any change in her baseline lower extremity swelling/deformity and no increased erythema or pain in her lower extremities. 
She has not had any recent long trips , although she had been somewhat bed bound after this knee injury. 
On the day of admission , the patient had increasing shortness of breath , fatigue , and somnolence and apparently hallucinations. 
The Emergency Medical Service was called and she was unarousable at home and they found her oxygen sats to be 40%. 
By the time she in to the ER she was lethargic and moaning incoherently. 
Her vitals at that time were temperature of 97.6 Fahrenheit , blood pressure of 178/46 mmHg , heart rate of 106 and regular , breathing 36 times a minute and satting 90% on 100% nonrebreather. 
Her fingerstick at that time was 220. 
Her trachea was intubated and she was given Fentanyl , Valium , albuterol , and Atrovent nebs and Solu-Medrol in the emergency room. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension , severe left ventricular hypertrophy , asthma/COPD without known pulmonary function testing in the past , morbid obesity weighing approximately 460 pounds , obstructive sleep apnea - she could not tolerate CPAP in the past , osteoarthritis , and type 2 diabetes mellitus as well as a distant history of pulmonary embolus. 
After having a total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in 4/3 , she was anticoagulated for several months , but not since then. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
HOME MEDICATIONS: Lisinopril 40 mg by mouth each day , furosemide 40 mg by mouth each day , glyburide 5 mg by mouth each day , albuterol inhalers , Motrin 600 mg by mouth each day , and metoprolol 25 mg by mouth 3 times a day , and she is also on 3L nasal cannula home oxygen 24 hours a day. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is a former bus driver. 
She lives at home with her son , Rodrigues who is 30 years old , has a visiting nurse. 
No tobacco or alcohol or illicit drugs. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Her temperature was 97.6 degree Fahrenheit , her heart rate was 106 and regular , her blood pressure was 130/50 , respiratory rate of 24 , and oxygen saturation 98%. 
At that point , she was intubated. 
She opened her eyes to sternal rub but not to voice. 
Her pupils were equal and 2 mm bilaterally. 
Her neck was supple. 
Pulmonary: Sounds were coarse anterior and laterally. 
Cardiovascular: She had distant , distant heart sounds , tachycardic. 
Her jugular venous pressure was unable to be assessed given her neck size and her distal , radial , and dorsalis pedis pulses were all palpable 1+. 
Abdomen is obese. 
Bowel sounds were present , soft , nontender , and nondistended. 
She had a midline scar. 
Extremities were cool with chronic venostasis changes perhaps lymphedema changes bilaterally. 
Left lower extremity was 23 inches and right lower extremity was 18 inches at the calf. 
Neurologic: As stated , she opens her eyes to sternal rub at that time. 
LABS ON ADMISSION: She had a sodium of 144 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 95 , bicarbonate of 40 , BUN of 16 , creatinine of 0.7 , and glucose of 236. 
Calcium of 8.9 , magnesium of 1.9 , phosphorous of 4.7 , ALT of 23 , AST of 18 , total bilirubin of 2.1 , alkaline phosphatase of 78 , and albumin of 3.9. 
Urinalysis was significant for 3+ protein , 2+ blood , positive leukocyte esterase , negative nitrites , and bacteria as well as trichomonas. 
Her D-dimer was 1330. 
Her white count was 13 , 000 with 90% neutrophils , 2% bands , and 5% lymphocytes. 
Her hematocrit was 42.4% and platelet count was 164 , 000. 
Her MCV was 93 and she had an anti-PF4 antibody , also known as a HIT antibody , which was negative. 
Her INR was 1.2 and her PTT was 26.3. 
Her urine and serum tox screens did not reveal any toxins. 
Her chest radiograph was a poor quality film given the girth. 
The film was rotated. 
The ET tube was 3.5 cm from the corner , otherwise , extraordinarily limited , but no gross consolidation or effusions were noted. 
A pulmonary embolus CT scan or V/Q scan were considered to rule out a pulmonary embolus; however , the patient's abdominal girth prevented either of these studies from being done. 
Lower extremity noninvasive studies were performed , which did not show any clot although this was also limited by her chronic lower extremity changes. 
Urine culture and blood cultures were sent on 10/28/06 .  
The urine culture grew mixed flora and the blood cultures have been negative to date. 
ASSESSMENT AT THE TIME OF ADMISSION: This is a 54-year-old woman with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on home oxygen as well as obstructive sleep apnea , hypertension , and left ventricular hypertrophy and obesity with mental status changes and respiratory changes consistent with an exacerbation of recurrent obstructive pulmonary disease and hypoxemia. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Pulmonary: Her trachea was extubated within several hours of coming to the Medical Intensive Care Unit. 
At first , she was doing quite well on BiPAP at 25 and 5; however , she became a bit more somnolent and the decision was made to intubate her trachea once again within several hours. 
An ABG at that time was done , which revealed an arterial blood gas at that time with an FiO2 of 60% revealed a pH of 7.19 , a CO2 of 119 , and an oxygen of 106 with saturation of 97%. 
As we were preparing to intubate the trachea , the patient became more alert and requested to speak to her son beforehand and saying she did not want to have the tube down her throat. 
Her son came in and she continued making more sense and asking us not to intubate her trachea. 
The decision was made to observe her with the BiPAP , which was done. 
Within several hours her carbon dioxide had decreased to 103 and then by 3 hours after that it actually decreased to 80. Her arterial blood gas at that time showed pH of 7.32 with a PCO2 of 80 , a PO2 of 71 on 2L of actual nasal cannula and then O2 saturation of 95%. 
She remained on BiPAP intermittently at various setting. 
Her final settings were pressure support of 20 and a PEEP of 5. Her CO2 ranged from the mid 60s to 99 without a very clear correlation between her mental status and her CO2s. 
The thought was that her baseline CO2 was probably somewhere in the 70s given that her pH was normal with PCO2 around in the low 80s. 
It was thought that she is a chronic carbon dioxide retainer. 
Her bicarbonates on admission here previously had been in the mid to high 30s and low 40s just as they were during this admission and that she just had an acute hypercarbic event. 
Throughout her stay she has had episodes where she become slightly less responsive always will awake with appropriate physical stimuli and will give appropriate responses. 
She was treated for her pulmonary disease initially with corticosteroids , which were discontinued given that we did not feel that she had large a inflammatory component to this , Levofloxacin 500 mg a day , albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers and she was started on an inhaled corticosteroid. 
2. Vascular: The possibility of a pulmonary embolus was considered especially given her history of pulmonary embolus in the past. 
Unfortunately , diagnostic imaging was inadequate given her girth and lower extremity issues. 
There is discussion of putting her on chronic anticoagulation for the possibility of pulmonary embolus; however , we felt she had a low to moderate probability of pulmonary embolus and that the risks of long-term anticoagulation outweigh the benefits given that she probably did not have a pulmonary embolus or deep venous thrombosis. 
This was discussed with the patient and she agreed with that decision. 
This can be readdressed in the future. 
The decision was also centered around the fact that her previous pulmonary embolus was in the setting of pelvic surgery and likely did not reflex any increased likelihood of thrombosis. 
However , she should be continued on subcutaneous enoxaparin or other prophylaxis for deep venous thrombosis while she is bedbound. 
3. Cardiac: The patient has a history of hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy. 
She should be continued on enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg a day , lisinopril 40 mg a day , and she will discharged on atenolol 25 mg per day. 
4. Endocrine: The patient has type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
She was managed in the hospital on a low dose of insulin NPH and Aspart sliding scale. 
On discharge , she will be resumed on her home dose of sulfonylurea. 
It may be considered that she will be good candidate for metformin given her weight and likely poor control of her diabetes. 
5. Obstructive sleep apnea with known elevated pulmonary artery systolic pressure at approximately 90+ right atrium and echocardiogram during her last admission at Pagham University Of .  
The patient should be counseled and encouraged to use her BiPAP or CPAP machine at home all the time at night given her likely severe obstructive sleep apnea and known vascular effects of that. 
MEDICATION ON DISCHARGE: 1. Lisinopril 40 mg by mouth each day. 
2. Atenolol 25 mg by mouth each day. 
3. Enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg by mouth each day. 
4. Enoxaparin 40 mg subcutaneous each day. 
5. Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers every 4 hours and p.r.n. wheezing or shortness of breath , this may be changed to inhalers when the patient can tolerate and she should be educated on that. 
6. Flovent. 
7. Levofloxacin 500 mg by mouth each day for 5 more days. 
8. Flagyl 500 mg by mouth twice a day for 11 more days for treatment of trichomonas. 
9. Glyburide 5 mg by mouth once daily. 
10. 
Regular insulin sliding scale as determined by the doctor at rehabilitation with meals. 
11. 
BiPAP 20 for pressure support and 5 of PEEP every night all , night and during the day as required. 
It would be recommended that she was on BiPAP continuously for at least 48 hours after discharge as tolerated by the patient except to speak with her family. 
eScription document: 1-8900909 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: SUGIMOTO , ARDELL Attending: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE Dictation ID 8430094 D: 11/8/06 T: 11/8/06