166827879 | PUO | 75649962 | | 763389 | 10/12/2000 12:00:00 AM | CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/5/2000 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 4/21/2000 SERVICE: The patient received care on the Pi'walt Run Community Hospital .  
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CHRONIC PULMONARY EMBOLI. 
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM LIST: 1. Sick sinus syndrome with pacemaker. 
2. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
3. Restrictive airway disease. 
4. Congestive heart failure. 
5. Abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
6. History of peripheral vascular disease. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 82-year-old female with a past medical history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and restrictive lung disease , peripheral vascular disease status post right carotid endarterectomy , status post bilateral femoral to popliteal bypass surgery , sick sinus syndrome status post cardiac pacemaker placement in 1993 , history of squamous cell carcinoma and abdominal aortic aneurysm diagnosed two weeks prior to admission , who presented to the I Warho Hospital Emergency Department on 10/7 with a two day history of shortness of breath and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and worsening fatigue times two weeks. 
The patient was recently admitted and evaluated in Ro Comemp where she spends a significant part of the winter , and was diagnosed with a viral syndrome and "asthma" flare. 
The patient was hospitalized and underwent a Cardiolite stress test which was negative , as per her Menlandlourdes Medical Center primary care doctor , Dr. Mcfee . 
The patient also had an echocardiogram done in Ert S which demonstrated a normal ejection fraction , but evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without obstruction. 
The patient was evaluated with a CT scan in Cape Laulub Paulrisa which demonstrated an abdominal aortic aneurysm greater than 5.0 cm. 
The patient had had prior surgery on her abdominal aorta , and the patient was to follow-up with Dr. Loerwald at the I Warho Hospital on 4/20 .  
The patient had also been found on the CT scan down in Irv to have a pelvic mass for which she had been evaluated by ultrasound and Gynecology follow-up has been arranged. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , restrictive airway disease , congestive heart failure. 
Recent echocardiogram less than two weeks prior to admission demonstrated normal ejection fraction and changes consistent with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy without obstruction. 
Dyslipidemia. 
Squamous cell cancer in the past. 
Sick sinus syndrome , status post pacemaker placement in 1993. 
Peripheral vascular disease , status post bilateral femoral to popliteal bypass. 
Status post right carotid endarterectomy. 
Abdominal aortic aneurysm diagnosed two weeks prior to admission. 
Depression. 
Seizure disorder. 
ALLERGIES: Penicillin and ampicillin cause nausea. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Short Stay Unit for a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare versus chronic pulmonary emboli. 
The patient had lower extremity noninvasive studies which demonstrated a left popliteal vein thrombosis. 
The patient's V/Q scan was initially set-up through the Short Stay Unit. 
Her V/Q scan was subsequently performed and read out as intermediate probability of the lower end of the spectrum by the nuclear radiologist , with significant changes consistent with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
The patient was started on initially unfractionated heparin and then transitioned to Lovenox and Coumadin , and started on prednisone for a presumed chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare. 
While the patient was in the hospital , her respiratory status was stable with oxygen saturations in the high 90 percent range on a maximum of 2.0 liters nasal cannula. 
At discharge , the patient was sent home off oxygen. 
The patient was evaluated by Dr. Dominguez for pacemaker function and the battery was in need of replacement. 
The patient was taken to the Procedure Room on 4/20 and underwent pacemaker battery replacement by Dr. Dominguez without complication. 
While in the hospital , the patient had a routine CT scan at the request of Dr. Loerwald , who will follow-up with the patient regarding surgery on her abdominal aortic aneurysm shortly after discharge. 
The patient was discharged in stable condition. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Pertinent findings on physical examination on the day prior to discharge. 
Temperature maximum 98.8 , temperature current 98.4 , pulse 56 , blood pressure 120/80 , respiratory rate of 20 , O2 saturation 95 percent on room air. 
General , well-developed , well-nourished , in no apparent distress. 
HEENT , pupils are equal , round , and reactive to light , extraocular movements are intact , the mucous membranes are moist , no pharyngeal injection , no conjunctiva injection , no icterus. 
The neck is supple , no thyromegaly , no lymphadenopathy , no masses. 
Cardiovascular , regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 , clear to auscultation , no murmurs , no gallops , no rubs , jugular venous pressure at 8.0 cm , no carotid bruits bilaterally. 
The lungs are bilaterally clear to auscultation , no crackles , no rhonchi , no wheezes. 
The abdomen is soft , nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly , positive pulsatile abdominal mass measuring approximately 5.0 cm. 
Bimanual examination , extremities are warm , trace left-sided pedal edema , no clubbing , no cyanosis other than her left calf cord. 
Neurologic examination , alert and oriented times three. 
Motor 5/5 proximal and distal muscle groups tested. 
Sensory and cranial nerve examinations were within normal limits. 
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory studies on the day prior to discharge , sodium 143 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 105 , bicarbonate 30 , BUN 14 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 141 , calcium 9.0 , magnesium 2.0. 
White blood cell count 6.5 , hematocrit 35.8 , platelets 255 , 000 , partial thromboplastin time 22.8. 
Repeat echocardiogram during this hospitalization , ejection fraction 60 percent , 2+ tricuspid regurgitation , 2+ mitral regurgitation , systolic pulmonary artery pressure greater than 50.0 mm of mercury above the right atrial pressure , restrictive physiology demonstrated mild aortic insufficiency and left atrial enlargement. 
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: On 4/20 , pacer battery replacement , no complications , Dr. Dominguez operator. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Vitamin C 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , Atrovent inhaler two puffs inhaled q.i.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Dilantin 60 mg q.a.m. , 60 mg q. noon , 120 mg q.h.s. all p.o. , Zoloft 25 mg p.o. q.d. , Zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Flovent 220 mcg inhaled b.i.d. , calcium carbonate and Vitamin D one tablet p.o. b.i.d. , Pepcid 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneous q.12h , Coumadin 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , clindamycin 300 mg p.o. q.i.d. times three days , Albuterol inhaler two puffs inhaled q.i.d. p.r.n. wheezing or shortness of breath. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. 
DISPOSITION: Home. 
ESTIMATED DISABILITY: Minimal. 
Dictated By: ALEJANDRA DEERDOFF , M.D. IT78 Attending: DESSIE R. ELENE L ARENDZ , M.D. PO7  HD115/4530 Batch: 42509 Index No. U7HJ7A1H5H D: 4/13 T: 3/16 CC: 1. DESSIE R. ELENE L ARENDZ , M.D. DZ7 MENLANDLOURDES MEDICAL CENTER .