849420538 | PUO | 24466939 | | 823225 | 10/20/1990 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 10/13/1990 Report Status: Unsigned 

Discharge Date: 11/23/1990 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 
ADDITIONAL DIAGNOSES: 1 ) HYPERTENSION. 2 ) DIABETES MELLITUS. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Napoleon Gillmer is a 56 year old woman with coronary artery disease , history of unstable angina , and status post PTCA in September of l990 presenting with crescendo exertional angina. 
Cardiac risk factors include positive for hypertension and diabetes , family history , and elevated cholesterol. 
Negative for tobacco and negative for previous myocardial infarction. 
The patient initially presented in September of l988 with chest pain. 
She had an exercise tolerance test at that time where she went nine minutes with non-diagnostic changes. 
In April of l988 , she had an exercise tolerance test with thallium. 
She went 7 minutes and 33 seconds stopping because of shortness of breath with non-diagnostic changes and demonstrated reperfusion defects. 
She was treated at that time with Diltiazem and Enalapril. 
Patient did well until February of l990 when she was admitted to the Pagham University Of with unstable angina and electrocardiogram changes. 
An exercise tolerance test at that time demonstrated six minute and twenty second duration with blood pressure response of l46/86 and global greater than 2 mm ST depressions. 
The patient went to Catheterization where she had normal filling pressures. 
She was noted to have a 30% left anterior descending lesion , a 90% Dl lesion , and a 40% OMBl lesion. 
At that time , her ejection fraction was 43% and she was noted to have inferior hypokinesis. 
Patient was treated at that time with a PTCA. 
Her Dl was reduced from 90% to 20% without complications. 
Patient has done well since that time until about five days prior to admission when she noted increasing exertional angina while walking up stairs that was relieved easily with one Nitroglycerin. 
This continued to progress , always symptoms occurring with exertion with several episodes of pain on the day of admission not associated with shortness of breath , diaphoresis , nausea , vomiting , or radiation. 
Patient said that her longest episode of pain was approximately twenty minutes. 
This was because she did not have her Nitroglycerin with her and was unable to take any medication. 
Patient denies any history of rest pain. 
In addition , the patient had some suggestion of difficulty sleeping at night requiring more pillows. 
However , she denies that this is related to her breathing. 
Patient has no history of medical non-compliance and denies any constitutive symptoms such as fevers , chills , sweats , rash , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , or change in bowel habits. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) Hypertension. 2 ) Diabetes , adult onset. 
3 ) Elevated cholesterol. 
4 ) Carpal-tunnel syndrome. 
5 ) Status post total abdominal hysterectomy. 
6 ) Colonic polys. 
7 ) Gravida XIV , para 9 , AB 5. 8 ) Thyroid tumor resection. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: 1 ) Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2 ) Isordil l0 mg p.o. t.i.d. 3 ) Ecotrin one tablet p.o. q.d. 4 ) Lovastatin 20 mg p.o. q.d. 5 ) Insulin 60 units of NPH and 20 units of CZI every morning and 20 units of NPH and 6 units of CZI every afternoon. 
6 ) Nitroglycerin p.r.n. 
ALLERGIES: The patient denies any known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her husband who is very supportive and has a close relationship to all of her nine children. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , the patient was a pleasant obese white woman in no apparent distress. 
Her temperature was 98.6 , blood pressure l52/84 , pulse 70 , and respirations l6. 
SKIN: Without lesions. 
HEENT: Clear oropharynx without any lymphadenopathy. 
Pupils equal and reactive to light. 
NECK: Demonstrated a well healed thyroid scar , supple without masses. 
CHEST: Clear. 
There was a question of some crackles at the bases. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: There was no evident jugular venous distention , carotids were l+ bilaterally , and Sl/S2 without murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
ABDOMEN: Obese , soft , and non-tender with normal bowel sounds. 
EXTREMITIES: Without edema. 
PULSES: Dorsalis pedis 2+ bilaterally and posterior tibial of l+ bilaterally. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Non-focal. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission , electrolytes were within normal limits. 
Hematocrit was 40 , white blood cell count was l3.0 , and platelets were 28l , 000. 
Chest X-Ray was within normal limits. 
ECG demonstrated a sinus rhythm at 90 beats per minute with an axis of 0 , intervals of 0.l6/0.06/0.32 , and there were some T wave inversions in I and L with l mm ST depression that was upsloping in V4 through V6 without significant change from March , l980. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was admitted to a monitored bed and was ruled out for myocardial infarction with serial CK enzymes of l76 , l33 , and ll5. 
There were no evident changes in her serial EKG. 
Of note , however , her second EKG had lead reversal. 
Patient did well after admission with no evident chest pain. 
There was some concern on admission with the story of difficulty sleeping at night raising the possibility of some congestive heart failure. 
However , throughout the admission , the patient showed no symptoms of this. 
Indeed , she slept well throughout the nights without any difficulty breathing and there was no evidence of congestive heart failure on her chest X-Ray. 
The patient went for cardiac catheterization which demonstrated that she had , in fact , reoccluded her Dl vessel to 95% stenosis and of note , she also had her OMBl with a 50% lesion. 
However , it was noted on catheterization that there was a small dissection proximal on the Dl vessel providing a relative contraindication to reattempt at PTCA. 
Therefore , this procedure was not attempted. 
It was felt that the best approach for this patient would be to improve her medical management at the present time and then at some future date if necessary , to bring the patient back to catheterization with the hope that an attempt at PTCA could be made later. 
The patient's Lopressor was increased to 75 mg p.o. t.i.d. and her Isordil was increased to 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
The patient underwent exercise tolerance test using the standard Bruce protocol and she went for six minutes and four seconds stopping because of shortness of breath denying any chest pain. 
However , she did have l.5 mm flat ST depressions in leads II , III , and F and the lateral leads as well as a l/2 mm ST elevation in aVL. 
DISPOSITION: Patient was sent home on her current medical management with the understanding that she should report any changes in her symptomatology as well as should maintain close follow-up with Dr. Theiling . 
She will carry with her , at all times , Nitroglycerin. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1 ) Ecotrin one tablet p.o. q.d. 2 ) Insulin 60 units of NPH and 20 units of Regular q.a.m. and 20 units of NPH and 6 units of Regular q.p.m. 3 ) Lovastatin 20 mg p.o. q.p.m. 4 ) Lopressor 75 mg p.o. t.i.d. 5 ) Isordil 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Good. 
Her disposition is to home with follow-up appointments within a week with Dr. Theiling . 
________________________________ DV312/5856 CARA BARNABA , M.D. HL86 D: 7/6/90 Batch: 7869 Report: H6859Q4 T: 2/6/90 Dictated By: VERNON RANDKLEV , M.D.