721267430 | PUO | 28643509 | | 733642 | 11/10/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/10/1993 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 4/18/1993 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: 1 ) CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 2 ) STATUS POST TORSADE ARREST. 3 ) ATRIAL FIBRILLATION. 
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: Coronary artery bypass grafting times three on 5/12/93 .  
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 72 year old man with a history of myocardial infarction in 1979 and exertional angina times the last several months which was well controlled on sublingual TNG until he experienced a twelve hour episode of chest pain which was followed by exercise stress test on 2/6/93 .  
The patient , previous to his recent onset of chest pain , had been very active with thirty to forty minutes of exertion daily without chest discomfort. 
For the past five days prior to admission , he noted progressive acceleration in his chest pain symptoms which were occurring with minimal exertion. 
The patient's local physician performed an exercise stress test and the patient developed symptoms at seven minutes of walking with associated ECG changes. 
Several hours after the stress test , he had recurrent chest pain at home and took a total of twelve sublingual TNG without relief. 
He presented to the Pagham University Of Emergency Room. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Medications at home including Tenormin , Allopurinol , and Coated Aspirin. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
Cardiac risk factors were negative for hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , tobacco , and diabetes. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Cardiology Service where he appeared to rule in for myocardial infarction. 
He was admitted to Dr. Ameen service and underwent cardiac catheterization on 2/25/93 .  
This revealed a 50% distal left main lesion , 100% mid left anterior descending lesion , 70% mid left circumflex lesion , 70% D1 lesion , and 100% right coronary artery lesion. 
In the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory , the patient had an intraaortic balloon pump secondary to ongoing chest pain and was referred to Dr. Marcott for coronary artery bypass grafting. 
The patient was taken to the Operating Room for coronary artery bypass grafting on 5/12/93 .  
At that time , he underwent an uncomplicated coronary artery bypass grafting times four with grafts including vein grafts to the left anterior descending , the D1 , OM1 , and proximal descending artery. 
Patient tolerated the procedure well and post-operatively , was noted to be somewhat hypoxic. 
His post-operative chest film the morning of post-operative day number one was notable for opacification of the left hemithorax. 
The patient was taken back to the Operating Room for evacuation of blood from the left chest and at that time , small bleeding site was found from a sternal wire on the left side. 
The patient returned to the Intensive Care Unit and did well post-operatively being extubated post-operative day number one. 
His initial post-operative course was notable for atrial fibrillation with rates in the 100 range as well as some intermittent hypotension. 
The patient was transferred back to the Tondill Graceston Lor Medical Center on A In Call for further management. 
On the day of his transfer , however , while being treated for rapid atrial fibrillation , he experienced a torsade arrest and a Code Blue was called. 
The patient was blindly intubated and from this event , was felt to have experienced an aspiration pneumonia. 
Patient was successfully resuscitated and was extubated several days later at which point he was transferred back to the Cardiac Surgical Service. 
From that time on , he had a stable post-operative course with intermittent slow atrial fibrillation which was well tolerated by the patient. 
He continued to progress well and consideration was made for need for transfer to a rehabilitation facility but the patient made good progress with his cardiopulmonary rehabilitation by the Physical Therapy Service and was safe for discharge to home on post-operative day number thirteen. 
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Digoxin 0.125 mg q.d. , Captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Tylenol #3 as needed for pain , Atrovent two puffs q.i.d. as needed , and Enteric Coated Aspirin one per day. 
He will follow-up with his local Cardiologist in one to two weeks and with Dr. Marcott in six weeks. 
Dictated By: TRISH CHAIX , M.D. PT27 Attending: DESIRAE R. MARCOTT , M.D. SK9  JN475/4975 Batch: 2158 Index No. QEGZ8I0XA4 D: 11/18/94 T: 9/19/94