989655309 | PUO | 79037331 | | 070464 | 3/4/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/24/1991 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 11/10/1991 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSIS IN THE DISTAL RIGHT POPLITEAL VEIN. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 49-year-old former triage nurse who has suffered from degenerative joint disease since 1977 when she was hit by a Woody'sal Blvd. 
, Nash , Virginia 45704 bus. 
She was hospitalized at that time and had a left calf deep venous thrombosis secondary to extended bedrest. 
Her joint disease involved primarily the L4 to S1 vertebra ( comprising two joint spaces , and she reported this to have been exacerbated by an attempted rape in 1980. 
At present , the patient suffers considerable daily pain inhibiting her ability to work. 
The patient recently received a facet block in October of 1991 at the Pagham University Of by the Pain Service which only seemed to increase her pain. 
She described steadily worsening pain in recent months and an increased portion of her time is therefore now spent at bedrest due to her decreased mobility. 
The patient described first experiencing left calf pain one and a half weeks prior to this admission which manifested itself as a crampy pain of short duration. 
She apparently saw her private medical doctor at this time , Dr. Rossie Mankoski , who sent her out on nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 
On 4/12 , five days prior to admission , the patient awoke at night with severe right leg cramping. 
She , at that time , went to the Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital Emergency Room where a noninvasive vascular study was positive for non obstructive peroneal vein thrombosis. 
She was discharged on Anaprox. 
On 4/29 , the patient returned to the KAAH Emergency Room complaining of increased pain and with great anxiety due to her perceived risk of pulmonary embolus. 
The patient has had this condition in the past and was quite concerned about it. 
Noninvasive vascular studies at that time showed the lesion to be obstrutive in the peroneal vein. 
However , there was no evidence of deep venous thrombosis at that time. 
She was discharged on Coumadin , 5 mg q day. 
On 8/18 , the patient experienced further worsening pain and came to the Pagham University Of for a second opinion. 
She was heparinized in the Emergency Room and admitted to the Medical Service. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denied chest pain , shortness of breath , dyspnea on exertion , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea or constipation , any recent weight loss or any additional constitution of symptoms. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Occasional migraine headaches. 
L4-5 ruptured disc status post bus accident in 1977. 
As stated above , she had a left lower extremity deep venous thrombosis following that hospitalization. 
Previous positive PPD , she had one year of treatment. 
Mugging in 1980 with exacerbation of her joint disease. 
Emergency Room admission in 1988 for questionable cholecystitis. 
Facet block times two in 1986 and 1991. 
Periods of incremental menorrhagia. 
She is followed by Dr. Leuga at the Pagham University Of .  
Endometrial biopsy recently performed was negative. 
Asthma. 
Gastritis. 
Appendectomy. 
ALLERGIES: FISH. 
ERYTHROMYCIN. 
LACTOSE INTOLERANCE. 
She has some knowledge of her natural parents. 
Her mother was retarded and died of a pulmonary embolism. 
Her maternal grandmother had an endochondroma. 
First cousin with pancreatic cancer. 
Maternal grandmother had cancer of the cervix. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is divorced times 11 years. 
She lives with her 16-year-old daughter. 
She has a positive smoking history. 
She denied drinking. 
She denied intravenous drug use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission revealed a well developed , well nourished white woman in no acute distress. 
The patient is mildly agitated and overly circumstantial in her dialogue. 
Blood pressure 112/78. 
Pulse 100. 
Respiratory rate is 24. 
Temperature 99.3. 
Skin was without lesions. 
HEENT exam was within normal limits. 
Neck was supple without adenopathy. 
She has a positive right anterior cervical mobile mass which appeared to be a lipoma. 
She was without any jugular venous distention. 
Chest was clear to auscultation and percussion. 
Breast exam was refused. 
Cardiac exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2 without S3 , S4 or any rubs , murmur or gallop. 
Abdomen revealed positive bowel sounds. 
Abdomen was soft , nondistended without any hepatosplenomegaly. 
The patient had normal sphincter tone , no masses , guaiac negative. 
Extremities revealed right calf tenderness to palpation , slightly swollen , no warmth , positive Homan's sign. 
No cords were felt. 
The left calf was unremarkable with some point tenderness and right inner thigh , again no cords felt. 
There was no CVA tenderness. 
There was positive point tenderness in the region of L4-5 , L5-S1. 
Neurological exam revealed the patient to be alert and oriented times three. 
Cranial nerves II-XII were intact. 
No deficit of sensory proprioception or position sense. 
LABORATORY DATA: On admission included a sodium of 140. 
Potassium of 4.3. 
Chloride 105. 
Bicarb of 30. 
BUN 25. 
Creatinine 1.2. 
Glucose 89. CBC was notable for a white blood cell count of 11.9 with 22 lymphocytes , 7 monocytes , 67 neutrophils , 2 eosinophils. 
Hematocrit was 41.4. 
Platelet count 150 , 000. 
PT was 16.6. 
PTT 29.8. 
All other values were within normal limits. 
Urinalysis was significant for a pH of 8.0 , 1-3 white cells , 0-2 red cells , 1+ bacteria. 
Chest x-ray was remarkable for no infiltrates or effusions , positive hiatal hernia. 
EKG revealed sinus rhythm at 90 with intervals of 0.18/0.08/0.36 , no ST changes , no change since 11/23 .  
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient is a 49-year-old female with a history of prior deep venous thrombosis with recent decreased mobility who presented with a painful right calf with a documented right peroneal vein obstruction. 
Although the clot is only documented to be below the knee , the question of progression must be addressed. 
Initially , in light of strong data supporting these events , anti-coagulation to prevent progression of these clots , the decision was made to further anti-coagulate the patient as she had minimal risks for this procedure. 
On admission , there was no evidence of pulmonary embolus by history of physical. 
Right calf pain/deep venous thrombosis: On the second hospital day , the patient had noninvasive Doppler studies of her lower extremity which were significant for deep venous thrombosis in the distal right popliteal vein. 
There were no other abnormalities seen in either lower extremity. 
The patient was initially treated with heparin since her PT was subtherapeutic on admission and continued on Coumadin. 
By the second hospital day , the patient was therapeutically Coumadinized and the dose was adjusted accordingly with the goal of 17 to 19. 
As far as her leg pain was concerned , the patient was treated with Percocet for this problem. 
Physical therapy came and evaluated the patient and helped her with regaining her mobility. 
She was fitted with compression stockings. 
Arrangements were made for VNA for the patient upon discharge. 
2 ) Back pain - This is a longstanding problem for which this patient has been treated for for many years. 
She refused any consultation at this time by the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of Pain Service. 
Instead , we treated her with Percocet for these symptoms. 
3 ) Agitation - Patient is extremely agitated demonstrating almost hypomanic state with pressured speech and Flight of ideas. 
She was initially on Clonipin on admission on which she was maintained. 
In addition , she was given additional benzodiazepines to help with sleep. 
DISPOSITION: CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. 
Patient was therapeutically anti-coagulated and she was given a regimen of Coumadin to take to be followed by Dr. Rossie Mankoski . 
Disposition is to home with visiting nurse service. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Coumadin 2.5 alternating with 5 mg q.d. , Clonazepam 0.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Percocet one tablet p.o. q.4-6h. 
, Darvocet l00 mg p.o. q.8h. 
p.r.n. , Senokot 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and Cimetidine 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
Patient is to be followed by Dr. Rossie K Mankoski . 
JD192/5519 ROSSIE MANKOSKI , M.D. PI36 D: 4/1/91 Batch: 4149 Report: I6270O4 T: 2/6/91 Dictated By: WENDI NEWAND , M.D.