222755927 | PUO | 29577753 | | 9452887 | 2/11/2006 12:00:00 AM | FEVER | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/4/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 1/3/2006 ATTENDING: PILLING , WEI M.D. OUTPATIENT PHYSICIAN: Dr. Rufus Bernas . 
Fax number 384-363-4910. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. VRE line sepsis. 
2. Left heel osteomyelitis. 
3. Type I diabetes. 
4. End-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Fever. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 36-year-old woman with a history of type I diabetes , chronic renal insufficiency on hemodialysis as well as chronic skin ulcers who was at hemodialysis on the day of admission when she developed fevers to 101 , chills , and rigors. 
The patient also developed diffuse abdominal pain on the afternoon of admission and was referred for evaluation. 
The patient on questioning reports that she was in her usual state of health until 2 days prior to admission when she began to have abdominal cramping with one episode of diarrhea as well as chills. 
While she was at hemodialysis on the day of admission , the patient became febrile with concern for infection and was referred for evaluation at the Emergency Department. 
EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT COURSE: The patient was treated with vancomycin , ceftriaxone , gentamicin and clindamycin in the emergency department. 
She was also treated with regular insulin as well as morphine IV. REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Notable for headaches , bilateral lower extremity edema , as well as shortness of breath , which she reports is better since having dialysis on the day of admission. 
The patient does have three-pillow orthopnea at baseline which is unchanged. 
She denies nausea , vomiting , melena , bright red blood per rectum , dysuria or chest pain. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Type I diabetes , chronic renal insufficiency , chronic dermal ulcers , history of MRSA , peripheral neuropathy , legally blind , gastropathy , cardiac murmur , seizure disorder , hepatomegaly , status post excision of infected bone from her left heel one month prior to admission. 
ALLERGIES: Aspirin causes tongue swelling. 
Codeine , erythromycin , beef and pork insulin. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Neurontin , Keppra , lisinopril , oxycodone , Lasix , vancomycin , Toprol , and insulin , notably Lantus and NPH. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has four children ages 5 through 20. 
She reports no tobacco , alcohol or IV drug use. 
The patient's mother is at home watching her children. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Vital signs: Temperature 103.3 , heart rate 92 , blood pressure 200/95 , respiratory rate of 20 , and 96% on room air. 
General: The patient is a black woman with multiple skin ulcers notably over her trunk. 
Pupils were equal , round and reactive to light and accommodation. 
Extraocular muscles were intact. 
She does have horizontal nystagmus , sclerae are anicteric , JVP was flat. 
Chest: Faint right basilar crackles. 
Cardiovascular: S1 , S2 normal , II/VI systolic murmur at the left upper sternal border. 
Carotids 2+ without bruit. 
Abdomen: Decreased bowel sounds , obese , slightly distended , mildly tender with deep palpation , no rebound or guarding. 
Extremities 1-2+ edema , left heel open ulcer with foul odor and surrounding erythema. 
Neurological examination grossly nonfocal. 
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Sodium 133 , potassium 4.5 , BUN 45 , creatinine 8.2. 
Serum glucose 507 , white blood cell count 14.4 with 4 bands. 
Hematocrit 30.3 , platelets 525. 
Normal liver function test , lipase 29 normal. 
Urine hCG negative. 
INR 1.6. 
Urinalysis was slightly positive. 
STUDIES: Chest x-ray revealed an enlarged cardiac silhouette concerning for pericardial effusion and bibasilar subsegmental atelectasis. 
Left foot x-ray showed evidence of osteomyelitis of the left calcaneus. 
Abdominal CT showed diffuse retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy , pulmonary nodules in the left lower lobe as well as a low attenuation foci associated with a small bowel of unclear significance. 
EKG showed normal sinus rhythm at 85 beats per minute , normal axis with isolated T-wave inversion in V1. OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: 1. Status post wound debridement left heel 4/10/06 by Dr. Stacie Halechko , vascular surgery. 
2. Status post hemodialysis tunneled catheter placement left chest 1/27/06 by interventional radiology. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Infectious disease: Line sepsis. 
The patient was treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics and initially treated with vancomycin , ceftazidime , and clindamycin as well as gentamicin. 
She underwent a transthoracic echocardiogram that was negative for valvular vegetation and she showed no stigmata of endocarditis. 
She had blood cultures from 8/17/2006 that were positive for vancomycin resistant enterococcus and her antibiotic regimen was changed to linezolid and clindamycin to cover for anaerobes in her left heel. 
The patient's tunneled hemodialysis catheter was removed on hospital day #2 in the setting of line sepsis. 
The patient remained afebrile and will complete a 21-day course of linezolid for VRE line sepsis. 
Repeat blood cultures show no growth to date. 
The patient was also admitted with chronic left heel osteomyelitis. 
The patient had plain films that showed evidence of osteomyelitis. 
The Vascular Surgery Service was consulted and the patient underwent debridement of her left heel on 4/10/06 by Dr. Halechko and Dr. Mancera . 
The patient will most likely need a left below-the-knee amputation in the future most. 
The patient's wound culture grew out Morganella morganii. 
However , in discussion with the Medical team , the patient was not treated with antibiotic coverage for this positive wound culture. 
A vacuum dressing was temporarily placed to her wound and currently the wound is being treated with t.i.d. wet-to-dry dressings. 
The patient did have a chest x-ray that could have been compatible with an early left lower lobe pneumonia , and had some low grade fevers during this admission. 
The patient will also be discharged on a 10 day course of renally dosed Levaquin to cover for possible community acquired pneumonia. 
The patient also had abdominal pain and fevers on admission and had an abdominal CT scan without evidence of abdominal abscess or other intraabdominal acute process. 
2. Renal: The patient has end-stage renal disease , on hemodialysis. 
She had her hemodialysis catheter removal. 
She had negative blood cultures from 5/16/06 and the Interventional Radiology Service placed another left chest tunneled hemodialysis catheter on 1/27/06 .  
The patient was started on Nephrocaps , PhosLo as well as Plavix during this admission. 
3. Cardiovascular: The patient had an admission chest x-ray with an enlarged cardiac silhouette. 
She underwent a transthoracic echocardiogram that revealed an EF of 55% and trivial pericardial effusion. 
She showed no signs of cardiac tamponade. 
The patient was continued on low-dose beta-blockade and her lisinopril was restarted during the admission. 
She did have periods of hypertension during the admission , thought to be in the setting of volume overload. 
This did improve with up-titration of her beta-blocker and hemodialysis. 
She will be discharged on lisinopril as well as Toprol-XL. 
She was monitored on telemetry throughout the admission. 
4. Fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: The patient tolerated a renal fluid restricted diet. 
She did have hyperkalemia of 6.3 during the admission , which was treated appropriately. 
The patient's hyperkalemia did improve with hemodialysis. 
The patient did have difficult peripheral IV access during the admission. 
However , she did refuse a central line. 
5. Neurology: The patient has a seizure disorder and was continued on Keppra. 
6. Endocrine: The patient upon admission had elevation of her blood sugars to more than 500. 
The patient was placed on an insulin drip , which was titrated off on hospital day #2. Subsequently , on hospital day #2 , the patient did have periods of hypoglycemia for which she received amps of D50. 
The patient's insulin regimen was adjusted during the admission. 
Initially , she was started on NPH 25 once in the evening and NPH 12 units once every morning. 
In addition , regular insulin 6 units before each meal was added. 
However , the patient again had periods of hypoglycemia overnight on 1/27/06 and her insulin regimen was changed to NPH 12 units subcu b.i.d. with a NovoLog sliding scale. 
However , she continued to have periods of hypoglycemia. 
SHe will be discharged on NPH 8 units sc qam and qac and qhs coverage with a humalog sliding scale. 
She will be discharged on this regimen and should followup at Ainam Iro Hospital .  
7. Prophylaxis: Pneumoboots. 
8. Hematology: The patient's hematocrit was at baseline and stable. 
The patient did have retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy seen on abdominal CT scan. 
This will need to be worked up as an outpatient. 
This may represent inflammatory changes in the setting of line sepsis and osteomyelitis however , malignancy will need to be excluded. 
9. Pulmonary: The patient had pulmonary nodules seen on abdominal CT scan and will need an outpatient follow-up chest CT to further evaluate these lesions. 
10. 
GI: The patient had a low-attenuation area seen within the small bowel on CT scan. 
In discussion with Radiology , we felt that further imaging as an outpatient could be considered in the form of either CT enterography or small-bowel follow-through. 
They did not feel that this area represented an area of acute pathology. 
11. 
Wound care: The patient requires t.i.d. wet-to-dry dressing changes for her left heel. 
She will need to follow up with Vascular Surgery in one week at either F/a Centrham Health Memorial Hospital , depending on the patient's preference. 
She should also have dry sterile dressings placed once daily to her multiple open dermal ulcers that are chronic. 
DISPOSITION: Full code. 
The patient will have homeVNA services. 
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENTS: The patient will need to follow up with either Vascular Surgery at Ouf County General Hospital or with Vascular Surgery , Dr. Halechko at 590-882-9425 at Pagham University Of in one week. 
The patient will need to follow up with Dr. Rufus Bernas , 381-216-5702 at Ouf County General Hospital Nephrology Department after she is discharged from rehabilitation. 
The patient should also follow up with Dr. ??__?? at Crossbarn Memorial Hospital in two to four weeks. 
Upon discharge from rehab , the patient will undergo hemodialysis at Rbrownrentu Chemend Medical Center , 525-172-8853 in Manor on Mondays , Wednesdays , and Fridays. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. every four hours as needed for headache , Keppra 500 mg p.o. twice a day , PhosLo 667 mg p.o. three times a day , Toprol-XL 100 mg p.o. once a day , Nephrocaps one tablet p.o. once a day , Linezolid 600 mg p.o. q. 12h. 
for 18 more days , insulin NPH 8 units subcutaneously once every morning please take one-half dose if not eating , oxycodone 5 mg p.o. every four hours as needed for pain and hold if sedation , lisinopril 5 mg p.o. once a day , Plavix 75 mg p.o. once a day , Humalog sliding scale as follows: If glucose 0-70 , call physician and drink orange juice; if fingerstick less than 200 then give zero units of Humalog; if fingerstick 201-250 then give 2 units of Humalog subcutaneously; if fingerstick 251-300 then give 4 units of Humalog subcutaneously; if fingerstick 301-350 then give 6 units of Humalog subcutaneously; if fingerstick 351-400 then give 8 units of Humalog subcutaneously; if fingerstick greater than 400 , take 10 units Humalog and call physician if fingerstick is greater than 400. 
Levaquin 250 mg po qday X 10 days eScription document: 8-2698432 EMSSten Tel CC: Rufus Bernas Nephrology Department Tonsta Ean Villebaxt Hospital Dictated By: JERRETT , RACHEAL Attending: PILLING , WEI Dictation ID 8885192 D: 2/18/06 T: 2/18/06