680159882 | PUO | 61129049 | | 6093539 | 2/8/2006 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/18/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 11/4/2006 ATTENDING: AUTHUR , FIONA M.D. ANTICIPATED DATE OF DISCHARGE: 11/16/06 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 86-year-old male with multiple medical problems including CHF , coronary artery disease , type II diabetes who presented to the Pagham University Of Emergency Department on 5/28/06 , with subacute onset of shortness of breath. 
He had been bedridden for several months with right heel ulcerations , and was scheduled to undergo operative repair of this ulceration , however , he began to feel short of breath one day prior to admission. 
His O2 saturation was 70% on room air. 
upon presentation. 
He also described dull nonradiating chest pain with shortness of breath , which had resolved at the time the patient arrived in the Emergency Department. 
He also had increased right knee pain for one week , presumably due to a combination of gout and OA. He was taking colchicine at that time as well. 
By the time the patient had been seen in the Emergency Department , his shortness of breath had improved significantly. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease status post angio x2 , peripheral vascular disease status post angioplasty in 2006 and angioplasty of right peroneal artery as well as tibioperoneal trunk. 
The above-knee popliteal was also angioplastied on the right , gout in the right knee , atrial fibrillation , and chronic renal insufficiency. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Transurethral resection of the prostate , appendectomy. 
MEDICATIONS: Ciprofloxacin , Zoloft 50 mg q.a.m. , Lipitor 20 mg q.p.m. , Coumadin 3 mg daily , aspirin 81 mg daily , Dilaudid 2 mg p.o. q.a.m. , Digoxin 0.125 mg q.a.m. , Lasix 40 mg q.a.m. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , Senna 1 tab at bedtime , Neurontin 100 mg q.a.m. and 200 mg at bedtime , Lantus 42 units q.a.m. , Lopressor 75 mg b.i.d. , and colchicine 0.6 daily. 
ALLERGIES: Penicillin. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 98 , heart rate 93 and regular. 
Blood pressure 112/68 , saturating 97% on 4 liters. 
Generally: He is alert and oriented , lying in bed , and no distress. 
His chest has bibasilar crackles , extending midway up his lung fields. 
No wheezes. 
Cardiovascular: Irregular rhythm , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
Abdomen: Nontender , no masses. 
Extremities: He has 2+ radial pulses and his lower extremity pulses are not palpable. 
He has a right foot dressing and is in a boot. 
Neurologically: His cranial nerves are intact bilaterally. 
His upper extremity strength is 5/5. 
PERTINENT LABS UPON PRESENTATION: K 3.7 , BUN 30 , creatinine 1.4 , and sugar 117. 
CBC 11.3 , 30.6 , and 421. 
INR 2.2. 
Cardiac enzymes: CK 21 , CK-MB 1.4 , troponin less than assay. 
Digoxin level 1.1. 
UA normal. 
IMAGING: Chest x-ray increased vascular congestion. 
EKG , left ventricular hypertrophy , AFib , digitalis changes. 
ASSESSMENT: An 80-year-old male with history of coronary artery disease , AFib , peripheral vascular disease , gout in the setting of CHF exacerbation. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was subsequently admitted to the Medicine Service where he was cared for until 1/15/06 .  
During this time , the patient's lasix was increased to 80 mg IV q.a.m. an attempt to diurese the patient with a goal I/O of negative 1 liter a day. 
He was continued on his digoxin and metoprolol. 
He was ruled out for cardiac event with three negative sets of cardiac enzymes. 
He was started on a bowel regimen of Colace , Senna and MiraLax p.r.n. due to constipation. 
Regarding his right knee pain , the Rheumatology Service was consulted on 7/10/06 and recommended two views of his right knee , which were significant for a small effusion and severe osteoarthritis. 
Recommended Tylenol , opioids for pain and continued colchicine. 
Intraarticular steroids were discussed , however , deferred until after surgical intervention. 
A Foley catheter was placed to monitor his I's and O's closely. 
He was also started on tamsulosin for his BPH. 
Regarding his hematologic status , his Coumadin was initially continued , however , due to a planned Plastic Surgery intervention , starting on 7/10/06 .  
The patient did receive several doses of p.o. vitamin K preoperatively , which brought his INR down to 1.3 prior to surgery. 
Thus on 1/15/06 , Mr. Parlin was taken to the operating room for debridement of his right Achilles ulceration and split thickness skin graft. 
Postoperatively , he was transferred to the Plastic Surgery Service. 
On postop day #1 , the Rheumatology Service was again consulted for persistent right knee pain. 
They elected at that time to inject steroids intraarticularly. 
There was not enough fluid for aspiration , however. 
POSTOPERATIVE HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: Neurologically: The patient tolerated p.r.n. 
Dilaudid. 
He was continued on his doses of Neurontin and Zoloft. 
Cardiovascularly: He has continued on digoxin and metoprolol for rate control of his atrial fibrillation. 
He was also continued on 80 mg daily of Lasix , which was decreased to 40 mg after recommendations from the Medicine Service. 
The patient did have an episode of bradycardia into the 30s on 5/12/06 , which was believed to be secondary to excessive beta blockade. 
Thus his Lopressor dose was decreased to 25 mg t.i.d. 
Respiratory: The patient has been saturating well on room air without pulmonary complaints. 
GI: The patient has been tolerating his diet and having bowel movements. 
GU: The patient's Foley catheter was removed on 5/12/06 .  
The patient voided without complication. 
He has continued his tamsulosin. 
Hematologically: He was placed back on his home dose of Coumadin and his aspirin was restarted. 
His hematocrit was stable postoperatively at 27.8 and has continued to be stable and is currently 29.4. 
He has also been maintained on subcutaneous heparin t.i.d. for DVT prophylaxis. 
ID: The patient was started on clindamycin postoperatively for graft prophylaxis. 
He has been afebrile and his white count has been normal and is currently 7.8. 
Endocrine: He has been maintained on Lantus and NovoLog before meals and a NovoLog sliding scale , which have been titrated according to his blood sugars. 
His insulin regimen is currently , Lantus 32 units daily , and NovoLog sliding scale , and NovoLog 4 units before meals. 
Rheumatologically: The patient has been followed by the Rheumatology Service for right knee gout. 
The intraarticular steroid injection improved his pain minimally and thus the Rheumatology Service is currently planning on injection of Synvisc intraarticularly. 
The Rheumatology Service also recommended a right knee MRI , which was obtained ( showed severe OA , gouty changes ). 
Regarding his wound , his dressings were taken down on 11/16/06 and his skin graft appeared to be taking well. 
His donor site is clean , dry , and intact as well and he is receiving heat lamp treatments daily. 
Regarding his mobility , the patient has been limited significantly due to his severe right knee pain. 
The physical therapist will work with the patient on 11/16/06 , which is the first day that his skin graft dressings have been taken down. 
PERTINENT PHYSICAL EXAM UPON DISCHARGE: The patient is alert and oriented x3 in no apparent distress while he is resting. 
When he attempts to move his right lower extremity , he does complain of significant right knee pain. 
Cardiovascular is irregularly irregular. 
His lungs are clear superiorly and slightly decreased in the bases. 
His abdomen is soft , nontender , and nondistended. 
Extremities: His right leg donor site is clean , dry , and intact with Xeroform in place. 
His right lower extremity skin graft was taking well with Xeroform in place. 
His right knee is swollen and tender to palpation. 
The patient has pain with passive and active range of motion. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Acetaminophen 325 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. pain , clindamycin 600 mg IV , colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. b.i.d. , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. daily , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , iron sulfate 325 mg p.o. daily , Lasix 40 mg q.a.m. , heparin 5000 units subcutaneous t.i.d. , metoprolol 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , senna two tabs p.o. b.i.d. , Coumadin 3 mg p.o. q.p.m. , Zoloft 50 mg p.o. q.a.m. , Zocor 40 mg p.o. at bedtime , Neurontin 100 mg p.o. q.a.m. , 200 mg p.o. q.p.m. , tamsulosin 0.4 mg p.o. daily , Nexium 20 mg p.o. daily , Lantus 32 units subcutaneous daily , NovoLog 4 units subcutaneous a.c. , and NovoLog sliding scale as well. 
P.r.n. meds include , Tylenol 325 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. pain , Dilaudid 1-2 mg p.o. q. 4h. p.r.n. pain , milk of magnesia 30 mL p.o. daily , and Maalox 1-2 tablets p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. upset stomach. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient should follow up with Dr. Authur in one to two weeks. 
He should also follow up with his primary care physician in one to two weeks. 
The patient should have his INRs checked two to three times per week with goal INR of 2-3 for treatment of AFib. 
He should also have heat lamp treatment to his split thickness skin graft donor site 20 minutes t.i.d. until the Xeroform falls off. 
The split thickness skin graft site should be changed daily with Xeroform and Kerlix dressing. 
The patient is currently scheduled for an MRI while inpatient , however , if he does not receive his MR while in house , he needs to have an outpatient MRI scheduled. 
Please refer to the discharge summary for final details including a final list of medications and the plans regarding MRI. 
eScription document: 8-4757518 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: POLIVICK , HERTHA Attending: AUTHUR , FIONA Dictation ID 8152056 D: 11/16/06 T: 11/16/06