764105079 | PUO | 69570980 | | 5741106 | 2/15/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/15/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: ATTENDING: PANAGOS , FAITH M.D. ADMISSION DIAGNOSES: Shortness of breath and failure to thrive. 
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: Clostridium difficile colitis and ischemic cardiomyopathy. 
OTHER DIAGNOSES ON DISCHARGE: Congestive heart failure; coronary artery disease; hypertension; atrial fibrillation; diabetes type 2; end-stage renal disease , on hemodialysis; history of urinary tract infections; and benign prostatic hypertrophy. 
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: No operations or procedures were done. 
TREATMENTS: No treatments were done. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: In addition to what is noted below , he does note increased fatigue. 
No fevers , chills , or night sweats. 
No palpitations. 
No diaphoresis. 
No abdominal pain. 
Occasional diarrhea with loss of bowel control. 
No nausea or vomiting. 
No dysuria. 
No hematuria. 
No bright red blood per rectum. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Shortness of breath and failure to thrive. 
BRIEF HOSPITAL COURSE: This is a 73-year-old gentleman with end-stage renal disease , on hemodialysis , with ischemic cardiomyopathy with an EF of 15% who was treated for C. difficile colitis and worsening CHF. 
The patient has a long history of ESRD secondary to hypertension and diabetes. 
He began hemodialysis in January 2005. 
He also has a long history of peripheral vascular disease status post right carotid endarterectomy and bilateral external iliac angioplasty as well as atrial fibrillation and a history of CVA diagnosed by MRI with the timing unknown , thought to be secondary to thrombi from his atrial fibrillation. 
This gentleman presented with worsening shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion as well as worsening dysphagia and anorexia on January , 2005. 
Apparently , he was in good health or at least his usual state of health until April , 2005 , when he was admitted to Hoplukes I Rehabilitation Hospital for GU symptoms which are unclear and a loss of appetite. 
He stayed there for 30 days and then transferred to a rehabilitation center. 
After being discharged there for 1 week , he developed worsening shortness of breath and was unable to answer the door when his neighbor knocked. 
The neighbor brought him into the ED on January , 2005 , for acute shortness of breath , which the patient described , has worsened over the past 3 to 4 days. 
He has gone from being able to walk across his apartment to now only being able to take 3 to 4 steps before becoming progressively short of breath , and he now sleeps on three pillows. 
In fact , he currently cannot even get through his HPI without 3- to 5-word dyspnea. 
He denies any PND. 
Concerning for his dysphagia , he feels like he first lost weight when he was trying to control his volume status prior to hemodialysis initiation in early January 2005. 
His goal was to be 114 pounds and he limited his intake in order to maintain that weight instead of limiting his volume. 
About 2 months ago , he began losing his appetite. 
He states that this was because of the "his renal diet." 
It was unclear if the diet caused this loss of appetite or his loss of appetite was prior to the diet. 
Over the past 3 weeks , he has noted progressive difficulty in swallowing solid foods. 
He is able to swallow liquids. 
Since discharge from rehabilitation a week prior to admission , he is only able to take liquids. 
He quotes he cannot even take noodles and soup. 
He has no nausea or vomiting unless attempting to swallow solids and no abdominal pain. 
His throat is sore and dry. 
He constantly wants water and ice. 
Also concerning is the report , it is unclear , about a 20- to 40-pound weight loss over the past 2 to 3 months. 
In the ED , he was afebrile; heart rate 105; blood pressure 136/70; respirations 18; and 97% on room air. 
He was given Lopressor for rate control for his atrial fibrillation. 
His EKG showed new T wave inversions in the inferolateral leads and Q waves , which were new for his baseline in the inferior leads. 
There was also an S1 , Q3 , T3 , which was new but absent once his rate was controlled. 
The patient was admitted to the floor and briefly transferred to the unit for refractory hypertension , though he was found to have right subclavian stenosis and blood pressure was checked in the left arm. 
His blood pressure was fine at 100 to 110 systolic. 
He was then transferred back to the floor. 
An abdominal CT was done on September , 2005 , which showed marked edematous colonic wall beginning on the ascending colon all the way through to the rectum. 
The differential diagnosis at this time was pseudomembranous colitis versus ischemic bowel. 
His lactate level was normal. 
He had a benign examination , and because of the distribution and the past antibiotic use , it was felt that he most likely had C. difficile , which was found to be culture positive on August , 2005. 
He had an echocardiogram , which revealed an EF of 10% to 15% with global hypokinesis and akinesis as compared to an echocardiogram done at the outside hospital in January 2005 with an EF of 30% to 35%. 
He had severe TR. On July , 2005 , while on hemodialysis , he had an episode of substernal chest pain. 
Enzymes were sent and troponin peaked at 18. 
An EKG showed ST depressions in V2 through V6 , which resolved with rate control. 
He received aspirin and heparin and continued his Lopressor and statin. 
The decision was made not to catheterize , as he was a poor candidate likely to have three-vessel disease and not a surgical candidate. 
The patient made the decision with the cardiologist , family , and the team. 
The patient was scheduled for an EGD and colonscopy to evaluate his dysphagia and colitis , but this was deferred secondary to the incident of the non-ST-elevation MI on January , 2005. 
Subsequently , the patient was managed medically for his worsening CHF and shortness of breath with fluid removal at hemodialysis on Tuesdays , Thursdays , and Saturdays. 
The patient began Flagyl p.o. 500 mg t.i.d. on January , 2005 , which should be continued through August , 2005 , for a full 14-day course. 
IMPRESSION: This is a 73-year-old man with acute worsening shortness of breath in the setting of a 20-plus-pound weight loss , increasing dysphagia , and progressive fatigue for the past 2 months. 
He was found to have Clostridium difficile colitis and ischemic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 15%. 
His course was complicated by non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction on January , 2005 , with a troponin peak of 18 , which was likely demand ischemia from tachycardia in the congestive heart failure setting. 
His EGD and colonscopy was postponed secondary to the non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction. 
The patient was managed medically with fluid removal with hemodialysis for congestive heart failure. 
He continues Flagyl p.o. for Clostridium difficile treatment. 
He was transferred on July , 2005 , to a rehabilitation facility. 
PROBLEMS BY SYSTEMS: 1. Gastrointestinal: We are treating his C. difficile colitis with p.o. Flagyl 500 mg t.i.d. from January , 2005 , through July , 2005. 
His stool did grow out Staphylococcus aureus , but this was likely from colonization from his mouth flora , and therefore , we are not treating. 
Per ID consult , we are holding all other antibiotics and treating only when cultures are positive. 
He had a planned EGD and colonscopy , which was postponed due to the NSTEMI on January , 2005. 
He should have a scope done , both upper and lower , 2 to 3 months down the road once the patient is stable. 
His LFTs were noted to bump on July , 2005 , but now are trending down; that is likely secondary to either shock liver or just his NSTEMI. 
Continue to monitor them at rehabilitation. 
The patient is unable to swallow solids and is currently on a full liquid diet. 
After EGD , consider barium swallow if nondiagnostic. 
The patient refuses NG tube , so encourage p.o. intake. 
He will take Nepro if asked. 
He should have at least 100 cc of Nepro a day. 
2. Cardiovascular: CHF with an EF of 10% to 15% with global hypokinesis compared to January 2005 EF of 30% to 35%. 
He has severe MR and TR. He is on Lopressor 12.5 t.i.d. and captopril 12.5 t.i.d. with blood pressure tolerating well. 
He was started on digoxin 0.25 three days a week on Sunday , Wednesday , and Friday , and his current digoxin level is 0.9 on July , 2005. 
He was wet on examination routinely and so it was taken off between 1 to 3 liters at hemodialysis regularly. 
He had an NSTEMI on January , 2005 , with troponin peak of 18 , likely demand ischemia from CHF. Continue aspirin , beta-blocker , and statin. 
We discontinued the heparin after 24 hours. 
A decision was made not to catheterize , as he is a poor candidate likely to have three-vessel disease. 
EKG currently shows Q waves inferiorly with ST depressions in V3 through V4 and T wave inversions in V3 through V6. 
The depressions improved with rate control. 
He does have a low blood pressure in the right upper extremity , which is false due to a right subclavian stenosis; always check blood pressures in the left arm. 
He has atrial fibrillation and he used to be on diltiazem for rate control. 
He was on Lopressor with good effect. 
He was restarted on his Coumadin dose at 4 mg q.h.s. on July , 2005 , for anticoagulation. 
He is on telemetry. 
He should be monitored of his INR for a goal INR of 2 to 3 for his atrial fibrillation and change of Coumadin as accordingly. 
3. Endocrine: Now on half-strength NovoLog sliding scale. 
He has had trouble with hyperglycemia for the past several days. 
His fingersticks can go up to 250. 
We think this is okay not to cover , as when we choose to cover him , he dips down into the 40s. 
4. Pulmonary: On admission , he had acute shortness of breath and tachycardia. 
An EKG showed S1 , Q3 , T3. PE CT was negative. 
There was no parenchymal disease. 
Some hilar lymph nodes were noted. 
His repeated chest x-rays were every other day , which only showed changes in the CHF status. 
There was routinely no consolidation or interstitial disease seen. 
His last chest x-ray showed bilateral pulmonary edema and that was on July , 2005. 5. Infectious Disease: We are only doing Flagyl p.o. for C. difficile treatment. 
He should continue 500 mg t.i.d. p.o. through August , 2005 , holding all other antibiotics. 
We questioned if he is septic when his temperatures drop to 95 to 96 , but all blood , sputum , and urine cultures have been no growth to date. 
You could consider a third generation cephalosporin if a pneumonia develops. 
6. Renal: Hemodialysis on Saturday , Tuesday , and Thursday. 
7. Hematology: He has anemia. 
Panel workup with mixed picture of iron and chronic anemia. 
We are repleting his iron with vitamin C. He received 1 unit on October , 2005 , at hemodialysis. 
His current hematocrit is 31. 
Guaiac stools have been negative. 
8. He has a malignancy workup , which has been negative so far. 
He has a normal TSH , PSA , and free PSA. 
No mass is seen on abdominal CT or chest CT. 9. Prophylaxis: He is on heparin subcutaneously and Nexium. 
10. Disposition: He is going to rehabilitation today on February , 2005. 
11. 
Code status: DNR/DNI. 
12. Health care proxy: His brother , Phung Schrauger , 388-878-3905. 
PLAN TO DO: 1. Hemodialysis on Tuesdays , Thursdays , and Saturdays. 
2. Continue Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. from January , 2005 , to August , 2005. 
3. Follow INR for goal of 2 to 3 for atrial fibrillation , on Coumadin 4 mg p.o. q.h.s. currently. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. headache; aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.; captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.; Peridex Mouthwash 0.12% b.i.d.; digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. every Sunday , Wednesday , and Friday; Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.; Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.; nystatin swish and swallow; Coumadin 4 mg p.o. q.p.m.; Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.; and Nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. 
NovoLog sliding scale: If blood sugars are less than 125 , give 0. Actually , give 0 until blood sugars are 251 to 300 , then give 2 units; 301 to 350 , give 4; and 351 to 400 , give 6. Also , ??___??. DISCHARGE CONDITION: The patient was discharged , condition stable. 
eScription document: 2-5802408 SSSten Tel Dictated By: MAGLIONE , KRISTIAN Attending: PANAGOS , FAITH Dictation ID 3465444 D: 6/18/05 T: 6/18/05