013385838 | PUO | 98854523 | | 5090690 | 4/10/2006 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/14/2006 Report Status: Unsigned 

Discharge Date: ATTENDING: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON MD PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: Coronary artery disease , left ventricular aneurysm. 
PROBLEM LIST: 1. Congestive heart failure. 
2. Atrial fibrillation. 
3. Coronary artery disease. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Briefly , this is a 64-year-old gentleman with a history of an anterior myocardial infarction in 1976 with resultant left ventricular aneurysm and congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of approximately 20%. 
He has had increasing chest pain with exertion over the last several years , which led to an evaluation for ischemia. 
Catheterization at the Niland Rawee Hospital in S Arlson Lu showed a 70% left main lesion and a previously known 100% LAD , OM and RCA disease. 
The patient had previously undergone a SPECT thallium scan 2/3/06 in Alabama , which showed a large anterior anteroseptal infarct involving the septum , anterior wall and apical walls that were entirely scarred and the lateral wall viability was unclear on that scan. 
A chest CT performed in October of 2006 showed a large left ventricular dilation with remodeling and calcified and thinned left ventricular apex. 
His past history is also notable for a history of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia dating back to 1983. 
He had his first AICD placed in 1990 at Daonredd Cison Community Memorial Hospital and this was replaced at the KAAH in 1993 with a rate-sensing lead via the left subclavian vein , and in 1997 , a CPI mini AICD was placed. 
On presentation on this admission , he did not have a history of angina , but did have a history of class III heart failure with marked limitation of physical activity. 
He was in atrial fibrillation , which is his baseline rhythm. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As mentioned above , includes also diabetes with oral treatment only , hypothyroidism , dyslipidemia and gout. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: His past surgical history is notable for a cholecystectomy in 80s and ICD placed via an open chest in 1990 , replacement in 1992 and in 1997 , appendectomy , right inguinal hernia repair in 1986. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has an eight-pack year cigarette smoking history. 
He has an alcohol intake of two drinks per month and the patient was formerly a dentist. 
ALLERGIES: His allergies include erythromycin giving a rash , amiodarone with a suspected pulmonary toxicity and elevated LFTs. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Toprol 25 mg p.o. daily. 
2. Valsartan 80 mg p.o. daily. 
3. Digoxin 0.125 mg daily. 
4. Isosorbide 30 mg b.i.d. 5. Aspirin 81 mg daily. 
6. Coumadin 1.5 mg daily. 
7. Furosemide 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. 8. Simvastatin 40 mg daily. 
9. Coreg 25 mg b.i.d. 10. 
Synthroid 50 mcg daily. 
11. 
Allopurinol 100 mg daily. 
12. Potassium 20 mEq daily. 
13. 
Klonopin 0.5 mg b.i.d. 14. 
Glucophage 500 mg b.i.d. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Notable for this gentleman who was 5 feet 10 inches and 95 kg in no acute distress. 
His vital signs were temperature of 97.8 , heart rate of 70 , blood pressure of 122/70 and oxygen saturation 98% on room air. 
He had no detectable carotid bruits. 
Examination of the chest was notable for a midline sternotomy scar that was well healed and an irregular rhythm. 
No murmurs were appreciated. 
His breath sounds were clear and equal bilaterally. 
His abdomen was notable for scars from a previous right cholecystectomy and a left lower quadrant incision for placement of ICD. 
There were no masses and the abdomen was soft and nontender. 
His extremities were without scaring or edema and he did not have varicosities present. 
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: An echocardiogram performed at the Pagham University Of on 9/24/06 showed an ejection fraction of 25% with mild mitral insufficiency , mild tricuspid insufficiency and an AICD wire in the right heart. 
OPERATION PROCEDURES: On 6/16/06 , the patient underwent a mitral valve repair with an Alfieri suture , a CABG x3 with a Y-graft saphenous vein; SVG2 connects SVG1 to LVB1 , SVG1 connects to aorta to OM1 , SVG3 to ramus , a left ventricular aneurysm repair and epicardial lead placement. 
The bypass time was 257 minutes. 
The cross-clamp time was 98 minutes. 
ICU COURSE: 1. Neurologic: The patient was brought to the Intensive Care Unit from the operating room on a propofol drip. 
He was adequately sedated. 
Sedation was weaned and he was extubated without incident. 
The patient's pain was well controlled with p.r.n. 
Toradol. 
This was transitioned over to Motrin and he was taking p.o.s and p.r.n. 
Morphine. 
He also was continued on his own dose of Clonazepam 2.5 mg b.i.d. 
He was neurologically intact throughout the course of his ICU stay and he was transferred to floor with no focal deficits , moving all extremities and pain that is well controlled. 
2. Cardiovascular: The patient was brought to the ICU on Neosynephrine , epinephrine and milrinone drips. 
The milrinone was initially given a weaning trial , but his mixed venous oxygen saturations dropped to the high 40s and low 50s and the milrinone was restarted. 
The Neosynephrine was the first drip to be discontinued and the patient remained on milrinone and epinephrine. 
Both of these were slowly weaned , the epinephrine coming off first and the milrinone coming off two days prior to transfer out of the ICU. 
He was in rapid atrial fibrillation and was initially loaded with digoxin , which did improve the rate transiently. 
He continued to have marginal mixed venous oxygen saturation and poor cardiac performance as assessed by cardiac output and cardiac index. 
Postoperatively , he had an intraaortic balloon pump. 
The intraaortic balloon pump remained in until postoperative day# 9 when it was discontinued. 
Slowly the drips were weaned. 
He was started on an afterload reducing agent , first a drip of sodium nitroprusside , after he had had a trial of esmolol. 
The esmolol did improve his rates slightly but did not significantly improve his cardiac output or his mixed venous oxygen saturation. 
He did seem to have improvement with the afterload reducing agent of sodium nitroprusside. 
His rapid atrial fibrillation remained refractory to medical treatment. 
He was given trial of ibutilide , which did not significantly change his rate or convert him into sinus rhythm. 
He was loaded with amiodarone in spite of his prior history of pulmonary and hepatic toxicity with plan to use a short course of amiodarone to improve the rate. 
His rate did improve. 
He remained in atrial fibrillation and did not convert to sinus. 
On postoperative day 8 , he was taken to the operating room and cardioverted successfully to sinus rhythm. 
Transesophageal echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 30% and no clots in the atrial ventricles. 
He remained in a sinus rhythm for approximately three days until postoperative day 11 when he switched back into atrial fibrillation that was refractory to ibutilide. 
Attempted cardioversion was done the following day , which failed , and he remained in atrial fibrillation on transfer to the floor. 
His rate was better controlled in the 80s to 90s and he was on a regimen of digoxin , afterload-reducing agent Captopril 25 mg q.6 h. and low-dose Lopressor 6.25 mg q.i.d. 
His pulmonary artery catheter was discontinued prior to transfer to the floor , and on transfer to the floor , his mixed venous oxygen saturation was improved in the high 50s to low 60s. 
3. Pulmonary: Initially , the patient required BIPAP while in the Intensive Care Unit. 
He needed an aggressive diuresis to improve his pulmonary status but transfer to the floor , he was down to 3 L nasal cannula and he was able to ambulate and get out of bed. 4. GI: The patient was initially started on clear liquids and was taking very minimal p.o.'s because he had a significant BIPAP requirement. 
As the BIPAP was weaned , his diet was advanced and he was tolerating a regular diet on transfer to floor. 
He did have several episodes of diarrhea. 
Fecal leukocytes and Clostridium difficile were sent and were negative and the diarrhea was resolving on transfer to the floor. 
5. GU: The patient was aggressively diuresed with a Lasix drip and with Diuril boluses. 
His creatinine tolerated the aggressively diuresis. 
His sodium remained low in the 130s and he was transitioned off the Lasix drip to p.o. Lasix and continued to be negative on transfer to the floor. 
6. Endocrine: The patient has a history of diabetes and hypothyroidism. 
He was maintained on dose of Synthroid initially IV. 
Then , that was transitioned to p.o. when he was tolerating p.o.'s. 
He was on subcutaneous insulin and his sugars were well controlled. 
Initially , he was on Portland protocol and was then transitioned to subcutaneous insulin. 
7. Heme: The patient was anticoagulated with heparin initially for the intraaortic balloon pump and atrial fibrillation. 
He did have a marked drop in his platelets and was positive for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. 
He was started on argatroban and bridged to Coumadin. 
On transfer to the floor , he remains on argatroban with a goal PTT of 50 to 70 and he is getting Coumadin with goal INR 2 to 3. 8. Infectious Disease: The patient had an elevated while blood cell count throughout the course of his ICU hospital stay. 
He had the intraaortic balloon pump in place for nine days. 
He was seen by ID and his only positive blood culture was a coag-negative staph that was believe to be a contaminant. 
He was on vancomycin for many days that was not discontinued. 
He does have a history of right knee gout , which did flare while he was in the Intensive Care Unit and part of his elevated blood cell count was attributed to that. 
He was started on colchicine and Allopurinol. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: On transfer to the floor , the patient was on following medications: 1. Captopril 25 mg p.o. q.6 h. 2. Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. q.i.d. 3. Digoxin 0.125 mg daily. 
4. Lasix 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. 5. Allopurinol 100 mg p.o. daily. 
6. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily. 
7. Clonazepam 0.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. 8. Colchicine 0.6 mg p.o. daily. 
9. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 10. 
Regular insulin sliding scale. 
11. 
Synthroid 50 mcg p.o. daily. 
12. Magnesium and potassium scales. 
13. 
Ambien 5 mg p.o. at bedtime. 
14. 
Nexium 40 mg p.o. daily. 
15. 
Lantus 12 units subcutaneously at bedtime. 
16. 
Darbepoetin alfa 40 mcg subcutaneous. 
17. NovoLog sliding scale and NovoLog four units subcutaneously with lunch and six units with dinner. 
DISPOSITION: He was transferred to the floor in stable condition. 
FOLLOW-UP: He will need continued evaluation with physical and occupational therapy. 
eScription document: 5-0472656 CSSten Tel Dictated By: ROIS , ARLYNE Attending: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON Dictation ID 1186931 D: 5/1/06 T: 5/1/06