504884125 | PUO | 81374974 | | 258232 | 10/2/1997 12:00:00 AM | SYNCOPE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/20/1997 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 8/9/1997 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: SYNCOPE. 
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS: 1. IDIOPATHIC CARDIOMYOPATHY. 
2. ATYPICAL CHEST PAIN. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 64-year-old woman who has lived in Lan Perv Enama since 1993. 
She has a history of chest pain and has a baseline EKG with an intraventricular conduction delay , QRS interval of 0.10. 
Her cardiac history includes: In February 1988 , she underwent an exercise tolerance test for chest pain. 
The patient went 7 minutes 35 seconds and had a maximum heart rate of 100 , maximum blood pressure not recorded. 
She developed a left bundle branch block with exercise. 
A thallium scan showed no evidence of ischemia. 
In September 1992 , she had an exercise tolerance test for chest pain and shortness of breath. 
She went 9 minutes 0 seconds and had a maximum heart rate of 167 with maximum blood pressure 138/60. 
She developed angina during the test. 
The SPECT scan showed a moderate fixed defect in the apicolateral wall. 
In 2/6 , she had an EKG done which showed normal sinus rhythm with a QRS interval of 0.10 and moderate LVH. 
In 1995 , the patient states that she had a cardiac catheterization in Smouth Son Mchocin which showed no coronary disease , although she was told that she had a cardiomyopathy. 
The patient reports feeling well until the day of admission without any chest pain , shortness of breath , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , or orthopnea in the recent past. 
On the afternoon of admission , at about 2 o'clock in the afternoon , she was watching television. 
She arose from the couch and went to the kitchen to get a cup of coffee. 
She recalls filling her cup with water , then recalls nothing else until she awoke with her grandchildren lying on half of her on the floor and crying. 
The patient was oriented upon awakening and recognized her grandchildren immediately. 
She did not have any incontinence or tongue biting. 
She denied muscle aches , somnolence , confusion , or weakness. 
She went to the couch to sit down and had nausea and vomiting about five minutes after her syncopal episode. 
She also noted a bump on the right side of her head and subsequently developed a headache. 
She did not have any neurologic symptoms , denied any chest pain or shortness of breath. 
She was diaphoretic at the time that she was sitting on the cough , nauseous and vomiting afterwards. 
She had no palpitations and she had no presyncopal sensation or dizziness at any time. 
She does report having a history of palpitations in the past , but none on the day of admission. 
She had no fevers , chills , or other sick contacts. 
She had no prior history of syncope or loss of consciousness. 
She had no history of seizures or transient neurologic symptoms. 
In addition , she does report that she has a history of chest pain. 
The last time was more than a year prior to admission. 
She has no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , no pedal edema , no orthopnea , and no change in exercise tolerance recently. 
She climbs stairs without any problems. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Hypertension. 2. Chest pain , last episode approximately one year prior to admission. 
3. Palpitations. 
4. Question of cardiomyopathy , diagnosed by cardiac catheterization in Ri Po in 1995. 
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: 1. Vasotec 10 mg p.o. q.day. 
2. Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.day. 
3. Lasix 20 mg q.day. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient does not smoke , does not drink alcohol , and does not use IV drugs. 
She lives with her daughter in Me at this time of year. 
She works in an outreach program as a nurse. 
She came from Oaks Field Sasver where she has been since 1993. 
Prior to that time , she was living in Lan Tulo Den and receiving medical care at the Pagham University Of .  
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs included a blood pressure of 130/70 , pulse 62 ( the patient had a blood pressure of 200/100 when initially seen in the Emergency Department ). 
She was an elderly woman in no apparent distress. 
Her HEENT examination was remarkable for having poor dentition. 
Her JVP was at 8 cm. 
Her chest was clear. 
Her cardiovascular examination revealed an S1 , S2 and intermittent S3 , no murmurs , with regular rate. 
Her abdomen was soft and nontender. 
Her extremities were warm without any cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. 
Neurological examination was unremarkable. 
Her mental status was entirely intact. 
Cranial nerve examination was grossly intact. 
Her reflexes were 2+ throughout and her toes did not respond to the Babinski stimulation. 
LABORATORY DATA: She had a CK of 119 , magnesium 2.2. 
Her digoxin level was 0.7. 
Troponin I was 0. Electrolytes were entirely within normal limits , as were BUN and creatinine. 
White blood cell count was 10.3 , hematocrit 36.5 , and platelet count 298. 
Urinalysis revealed 0-1 white cells , 0-1 red cells , 1+ bacteria , and 1+ epithelial cells. 
Chest x-ray revealed no evidence of congestive heart failure or infiltrate. 
EKG , at the time of admission , showed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 93 with intervals of 0.183 , 0.15 , and 0.417. 
She had a left bundle branch block which was new since her 1993 EKG. HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for work up of her syncopal episode. 
By hospital day one , the patient underwent a rule out for myocardial infarction. 
Her enzymes were flat and her EKG showed no changes consistent with acute myocardial infarction. 
In addition , she underwent an echocardiogram which revealed an ejection fraction of 30%-35%. 
She also had anterolateral wall motion abnormalities. 
On the following day , the patient underwent a right sided heart catheterization , which revealed that her coronary arteries were completely clean. 
She underwent an EP study which was entirely normal. 
On the following hospital day , she underwent an exercise tolerance test , and no arrhythmias were triggered by her exercise. 
Carotid noninvasive studies revealed minimal disease bilaterally , and the neurology service was consulted. 
The patient also underwent a tilt table study , which was entirely normal , with no suggestion of a vasovagal response. 
At the time of discharge , the patient had had no further symptoms and no further episodes of syncope while in hospital. 
Her Holter monitor results are pending. 
The feeling is that her syncopal event was most likely cardiac related , probably related to a tachycardic arrhythmia. 
However , her neurologic work up is still underway. 
She is to have an MRI/MRA as an outpatient and to follow up in KTDUOO clinic , as well as with Dr. Krance for further discussion as to whether AICD placement might be in order. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day. 
2. Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.day. 
3. Vasotec 15 mg p.o. q.day. 
4. Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.day. 5. Atenolol 12.5 mg p.o. q.day. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home to follow up in KTDUOO clinic with me ( Katia Poppell ) on 4/29/97 .  
She will have an MRA/MRI of her brain scheduled as an outpatient. 
In addition , she will be set up with an ECG loop recorder for further monitoring of events at home. 
Dictated By: KATIA POPPELL , M.D. MA60 Attending: DIONNE G. MONSOUR , M.D. MF57  CH107/2535 Batch: 16037 Index No. V5DA2F23ES D: 8/23/97 T: 8/20/97