042580388 | PUO | 02169523 | | 2377689 | 8/4/2003 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/24/2003 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 5/30/2003 ADMIT DIAGNOSES: 1. HEART FAILURE. 
2. DIABETES MELLITUS. 
3. HISTORY OF CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT. 
4. ASTHMA. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 54 year-old woman with history of dilated cardiomyopathy and estimated ejection fraction of 35 to 40% who presented with lower extremity edema , weakness , fatigue , and syncopal episodes x 2. At baseline the patient states that she is able to walk and perform her activities of daily living without symptoms of heart failure. 
Per patient , about five days prior to admission , she began to notice increasing lower extremity edema , rapidly spreading from her calves up to her thighs. 
She also noted symptoms of weakness and fatigue. 
On 9/29/03 the patient reported two syncopal episodes- the first of which was preceded by dizziness after which she lost consciousness after lying down. 
She awoke and walked to her apartment where she apparently lost consciousness a second time although she does not remember having any prodromal symptoms prior to the second episode. 
The patient was found by her neighbor and taken to the Tonsta Ean Villebaxt Hospital .  
At Poguary Medical Center , the patient was treated for heart failure with diuresis with IV Lasix. 
An echocardiogram at the Poguary Medical Center showed an ejection fraction of 10 to 15% , 4+ mitral regurgitation , 3+ tricuspid regurgitation. 
The patient ruled out for myocardial infarction and ECG showed no ischemic changes. 
The patient did have one run of 11-beat non-sustained ventricular tachycardia. 
Liver function tests were noted to be elevated. 
Her hepatitis panel was reportedly negative. 
The patient was transferred from Poguary Medical Center to I Warho Hospital as her primary care physician and cardiologist are at I Warho Hospital .  
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypotension. 
History of cerebrovascular accident. 
Type II diabetes mellitus. 
Asthma. 
Dilated cardiomyopathy. 
MEDICATIONS: On transfer , Albuterol inhaler , Flovent inhalers , Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , Reglan 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. with meals , Colace , iron , Captopril 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d. , NPH 35 units q.a.m. and q.p.m. , Humalog sliding scale , Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d. , and Albuterol nebulizers p.r.n. 
LABORATORY DATA: Creatinine 1.3. 
WBC normal. 
TSH was normal at 2.1 , ESR 8. ECG showed sinus rhythm , left atrial enlargement , left ventricular hypertrophy , no ischemic changes. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Cardiovascular: The patient has a dilated cardiomyopathy and was admitted with volume overload. 
The patient was diuresed with IV Lasix throughout her hospital course with successful diuresis of 1 to 2 liters of fluid per day. 
An echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 20 to 25% , severe global hypokinesis , moderate mitral regurgitation , and moderate tricuspid regurgitation. 
Right and left heart catheterization was performed. 
The right heart catheterization showed the following: Right atrial pressure was 8 , right ventricular pressure 35/5 , PA pressure 37/17 , and wedge pressure of 15. 
The left heart catheterization showed two vessel coronary artery disease , no obstructive lesions. 
The patient showed marked clinical improvement with diuresis with IV Lasix. 
Prior to discharge the Lasix was changed from IV to p.o. and the patient was stable on p.o. regimen of Lasix prior to discharge. 
The left heart catheterization , as noted above showed moderate coronary artery disease. 
The patient was continued on statin for this reason. 
The patient had had two syncopal episodes prior to admission along with a run of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia at the outside hospital. 
This raised the concern along with her low ejection fraction that she could be having arrhythmias causing syncope. 
On telemetry during this admission , the patient was noted to have additional runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia along with an episode of complete heart block. 
The electrophysiology service was consulted and placed an ICD and pacer on 11/25/03 .  
This procedure was well tolerated. 
Renal: The patient was noted to have low albumin on admission and protein in her urine , concerning for nephrotic syndrome. 
Renal consult was obtained. 
The 24-hour urine was collected. 
Renal ultrasound was negative for hydrosis or renal vein thrombosis. 
An SPEP and UPEP were sent which are pending at the time of this dictation. 
The renal consult felt that the diabetes mellitus was the likely explanation for the protein wasting in the urine. 
The patient was continued on an Ace inhibitor. 
Infectious disease: The patient was noted to have a localized area of infection at the area of old IV site on admission. 
She was started on p.o. dicloxacillin to treat this infection. 
Surgery was consulted and ruled out septic thrombophlebitis. 
Hematology: The patient was taken off Coumadin on admission but was continued on heparin for anticoagulation. 
The Coumadin was restarted after the pacer and ICD were placed. 
Endocrine: The patient was treated on a regimen of Lentes and insulin sliding scale. 
Her blood sugars were stable on this regimen. 
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: The patient will planned to be discharged on the following medications: Dicloxacillin 500 mg p.o. q.i.d. , Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.hs. 
, Lentes 40 units subcu q.hs. 
, Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lasix 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d. , and Keflex 25 mg p.o. q.i.d. 
FOLLOW-UP: She will follow-up with her primary care physician , Dr. Viray . 
She will follow-up with her cardiologist , Dr. Mcpeck , on 3/3/03 .  
She will have a repeat echocardiogram in July to reassess her ejection fraction and valvular disease. 
Dictated By: CARRI G. KATCSMORAK , M.D. KR07 Attending: SUNSHINE D. RAABE , M.D. LU76  VB722/666610 Batch: 5342 Index No. DGOD9V4LAC D: 11/24/03 T: 11/24/03