068885322 | PUO | 41618858 | | 8692888 | 2/10/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/10/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: ATTENDING: FIERMONTE , EARNESTINE M. M.D. PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS ON ADMISSION: Acute coronary syndrome. 
DIAGNOSIS AT DISCHARGE: Includes the following; ST elevation acute myocardial infarction. 
OTHER DIAGNOSIS AT DISCHARGE: Post-MI pericarditis , mural thrombus , type II diabetes mellitus , colonoscopy with colon polypectomy in 1991 , hypercholesterolemia , status post umbilical hernia repair , and questionable hypertension. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS AND HOSPITAL COURSE: Ms. Tortorella is 72-year-old female with a history of hypercholesterolemia , type II diabetes mellitus , past smoking , and questionable hypertension , but no known cardiac disease , who presented to this hospital with vague epigastric pain/chest pain exacerbated by deep inspiration and on lying flat. 
The pain persisted for more than 48 hours , 10/10 in intensity and prevented her from sleep finally leading to her presentation to the emergency department on July , 2005 , where EKG showed Q waves in the anterior leads with ST elevation in inferior leads II , III , and aVF. 
She had elevated enzymes. 
Her troponin peaked to 20. 
A bedside transthoracic echo showed anterior wall motion abnormality. 
She was started on aspirin , heparin , Plavix , Integrilin , and Lopressor , and the patient was taken to the catheterization lab where she was found to have a 100% proximal LAD lesion and a hazy 90% lesion to the ramus. 
Two Cypher stents were deployed to the LAD. 
The procedure is complicated by no-reflow phenomenon. 
One Cypher stent was placed in the ramus branch. 
Right heart catheterization revealed RA of 12 , RV 36/7 , PA 38/18 , and no step-up in oxygenation in the right heart. 
The patient was transferred to the CCU where her chest pain persisted. 
The pain was positional , increased by deep inspiration and it was felt to be likely post-MI pericarditis. 
Her EKG changes persisted , but her enzymes clearly were trending downwards. 
The diagnosis of post-MI pericarditis is consistent with echo findings showing adhesions between the myocardium and pericardium. 
An echocardiogram obtained after the percutaneous coronary intervention showed an LVEF of 35%. 
The left ventricular size was normal. 
The right ventricle was normal in size and the thickness of the right ventricle was also normal. 
There was mild tricuspid regurgitation. 
There was mild pericardial thickening with the areas of adhesions at the pericardium near the apex and there was a trivial pericardial effusion. 
Also , a mural sessile thrombus was observed near the apex of the heart. 
Her EKG changes continued to show ST elevation in lead II , III , aVF , V2 through V6 , Q waves in D2 , D3 , and aVF , and she also intermittent right bundle-branch block morphology. 
She was treated for ischemia with ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers titrated to achieve a pulse in the 70s to 80s. 
We did not increase it further because of her low ejection fraction she was unlikely to tolerate such high doses. 
She was started on aspirin and Plavix , which she continued for her myocardial function. 
She was placed on eplerenone and Lasix to achieve a dry weight estimated to be 78 kilograms. 
This should be her goal weight. 
She has also been receiving captopril , ACE inhibitors , for left ventricular remodeling. 
Rhythm wise , there has been no arrhythmia noted on telemetry on which she has been throughout her hospital stay. 
For her pericarditis , she initially received 650 mg of aspirin 4 times a day. 
She was continued on this , but later the dose was reduced as other anticoagulants were started. 
She was given tramadol for her pain with improvement of her pericarditis pain. 
Given her mural thrombus , she was anticoagulated initially with heparin achieving the therapeutic PTT of 80 seconds approximately. 
She was later bridged to Coumadin with a target INR of 2. A higher INR should be avoided thus to avoid hemopericardium. 
Endocrine wise , she was treated for her diabetes with an insulin regimen that consists of Lantus and Regular Insulin. 
A cardiac MRI was obtained on February , 2005 , with following findings. 
She had moderate to global left ventricular dysfunction with basal to distal and anteroseptal akinesis , apical akinesis , and distal inferior dyskinesis. 
Her estimated EF was 38%. 
There is full-thickness delayed enhancement of the myocardium indicating a 7th segment , out of the total of 17 segments , myocardial infarction. 
There was a large area of no-reflow within the myocardial infarction , which is consistent with microvascular thrombosis. 
The distal or the free wall is also hypokinetic raising the possibility of right ventricular involvement from the myocardia l infarction. 
A concentric moderate-sized pericardial effusion with exudative features was also seen. 
The thickest area of the pericardial effusion appears to be on the dependent aspect measuring 12 mm in thickness. 
There is no right ventricular or right atrial collapse or compression. 
Renal wise , she had no issues. 
Her creatinine was always below 1 , mostly 0.7 or 0.8. 
DISPOSITION: Her plan for disposition is to go to rehab. 
She has been evaluated by physical therapy. 
An addendum will be dictated with the current status of the patient and her discharge medications at the time that she is actually discharged from the hospital. 
eScription document: 5-8741073 ISSten Tel Dictated By: BEOUGHER , GEORGINE JENIFER TRACIE Attending: FIERMONTE , EARNESTINE M. Dictation ID 3306272 D: 7/9/05 T: 7/9/05