094282885 | PUO | 73788778 | | 8533383 | 10/24/2005 12:00:00 AM | NON ST ELEVATION MYOCARDIAL INFARTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/6/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 5/24/2005 ATTENDING: SURACE , NINA M.D. PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN: Domenic Lorraine , MD This is an interim discharge summary dictation and there will be an addendum , which will include the discharge medications and follow-up appointments. 
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: Non-ST elevation MI. PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. Non-ST elevation MI , status post PCI with drug eluding stent x3 to the SVG to RT PDA. 2. Acute renal failure , on chronic renal failure. 
3. Anemia. 
4. Insulin dependent diabetes. 
5. Hyponatremia. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 61-year-old female with a history of significant coronary artery disease status post inferior MI in 1988 , and status post CABG , who presents with a non-ST elevation MI. 
The patient has significant cardiac risk factors including hypertension , hyperlipidemia , smoking , age greater than 50 , and diabetes. 
The patient has a significant history of multiple vasculopathies with interventions on bilateral carotids , CABG , aortofemoral bypass , history of CVA , and likely renal artery stenosis. 
The patient presents with a two-week history crescendo angina present at both resting and exertion and which occurred two times per week and resolved each time spontaneously without the requirement of nitroglycerine. 
The patient awoke on the morning of admission with a sharp left precordial pain , which progressed to substernal chest pressure radiating to the neck down her right arm and left arm and a feeling of left arm numbness. 
The patient did experience significant nausea and vomiting and took multiple nitroglycerins without relief. 
She presented to Totin Hospital And Clinic Emergency Room , was noted to have ST depressions in the inferolateral leads as well as T-wave inversions in her lateral leads. 
Troponin at that time was 14. 
The patient was admitted for non-ST elevation MI management and probable cardiac catheterization. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Notable for coronary artery disease status post IMI in 1988 , treated with TPA , CABG in 1999. 
2. Hypertension. 
3. Insulin dependent diabetes times greater than 20 years. 
4. Carotid stenosis status post bilateral carotid endarterectomies. 
5. Hyperlipidemia. 
6. Status post aortobifemoral bypass in 1999. 
7. Status post cerebellar CVA in 2004. 
8. Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine to 2.5. 
9. Diastolic dysfunction , heart failure. 
10. 
Depression. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: 1. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily. 
2. Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily. 
3. Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily. 
4. Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. daily. 
5. Toprol-XL 25 mg p.o. daily. 
6. Hydralazine 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. 7. Glyburide 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. 8. Lantus 18 units q.h.s. 9. Isordil 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. 10. 
Nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. for chest pain. 
ALLERGIES: 1. Angiotensin receptor blockers , which cause hives. 
2. Adhesive tape , which cause pleuritis. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a retired beautician. 
She has a 45-year history of prior smoking and currently continues to smoke occasionally. 
At a high , she smoked three packs per day. 
Denies alcohol use. 
No recreational drug use. 
The patient currently lives alone. 
Father died at age 52 of brain tumor. 
She has two siblings with no heart disease. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Otherwise negative other than mentioned in HPI. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Upon admission , temp 97 , pulse 78 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 144/52 , and pulse oxymetry 99% on room air. 
General , this is a pleasant elderly female in no acute distress , slightly slurred speech. 
HEENT , normocephalic and atraumatic. 
Extraocular motions are intact. 
Neck is supple. 
No lymphadenopathy , no thyroid enlargement , bilateral carotid bruits palpable. 
Cardiovascular , distant heart sounds , regular rate and rhythm , a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur heard at the left sternal base. 
No rubs or gallops. 
Crackles heavily at the chest wall , no wheezes. 
Abdomen is soft , nontender , and nondistended. 
Bowel sounds are present. 
Extremities , no clubbing or cyanosis. 
Pedal pulses , 1+ , left greater than right. 
Neuro , cranial nerves II through XII intact. 
Strength 5/5 diffusely , light touch intact throughout , no dysmetria , mild difficulty with alternating movements , and negative pronator drift. 
LABORATORY DATA: Labs upon admission included ??__?? creatinine of 3.1 , otherwise the electrolytes within normal limits , sodium 129 , and glucose 132. 
LFTs were within normal limits. 
Hemogram showed a mildly depressed hematocrit of 32 , troponin elevated at 14.4 , CK 364 , and CKMB 28.3. 
EKG upon admission showed normal sinus rhythm at 83 , normal axis , ST depressions noted in leads II V5 , and V6. No ST elevations. 
Q waves in III and F. T wave inversions noted in I through III , F , V6 , poor R-wave progression. 
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: This is a 61-year-old female with a history of multiple vasculopathies , who presented with a non-ST elevation MI. 
The patient was noted to have markedly elevated troponin and progressive T-wave inversions laterally. 
1. Cardiovascular ischemia , following admission , the patient was initiated on aspirin , Plavix , nitroglycerin drip , oxygen p.r.n. , and the beta-blocker was titrated up as tolerated. 
ACE inhibitor as well as hydralazine were held. 
Over the first night of admission , the patient noted increasing chest discomfort. 
The nitroglycerin was titrated up. 
EKG showed continued T wave inversions laterally as well as marked increase in troponin up to an elevation of 105. 
Cardiac fellow was contacted and the patient was titrated up further on her nitroglycerin to a max of 200. 
The patient did not have chest pain on the night of admission , however was noted to have EKG changes and elevated troponin as mentioned. 
On the morning following admission , on 11/8/05 , the patient was noted to have new onset of chest discomfort and at that time was noted to have ST elevations in her inferior leads III and F as well as V6 and L. At that time , due to the continued chest discomfort and new ST elevation , the patient was taken to the cath lab , at which time , she underwent a cardiac catheterization and was noted to have a three-vessel disease status post CABG. 
She was noted to have 90% of occlusion of the SVG graft to RTPDA status post PDA. 
These lesions were intervened upon with drug eluding stents x 3. Following the catheterization , the patient was continued on her medical management. 
She remained chest pain free and the nitroglycerin drip was discontinued. 
Following the cath , the patient's troponins trended down and she had mild ST elevations that persisted inferiorly but were diminished prior to discharge. 
Preventive measures including nutrition and smoking sensation were obtained. 
The patient appears reluctant to quit smoking. 
Cardiovascular pump , the patient has a history of hypertension , which was well controlled throughout her hospitalization. 
Isordil and hydralazine were initially held on admission while on the nitroglycerin drip. 
The ACE inhibitor was held secondary to acute renal insufficiency. 
Therefore , the beta-blocker was titrated up. 
Upon discharge , the patient may reinitiate on low-dose hydralazine and Isordil as well as reinitiation of the ACE as tolerated with renal function. 
In addition , the patient has a history of diastolic dysfunction , which is likely due to her history of hypertension. 
An echocardiogram from October 2005 during a prior admission for heat failure showed an EF of 60% , as well as inferior apical hypokinesis , mild elevated LVEDP. 
The patient appeared mildly hypervolemic during her hospitalization but did not show any signs of acute congestive heart failure. 
Initially diuresis was held secondary to acute renal insufficiency. 
However , she received Lasix 40 mg IV x1 on 2/16/05 due to abdominal discomfort and distention due to mild volume overload. 
Cardiovascular rhythm , the patient was continued on telemetry throughout her hospitalization. 
She has no history of arrhythmias and no events were noted on her telemetry. 
She obtained EKGs , which showed no significant change or nodal blockage. 
2. Endocrine , the patient has a history of insulin-dependent diabetes , which was moderately well controlled throughout her hospitalization. 
She has a history of hemoglobin A1c of 7.3 as of February 2005. 
Upon admission , glyburide was held and the patient was continued on Lantus as well as a sliding scale of Regular Insulin. 
She obtained fingers sticks a.c. and h.s. 
Glipizide was initiated on 2/16/05 and will be titrated up as tolerated as an outpatient. 
3. Respiratory , this system was stable throughout admission. 
The patient had crackles on exam , but no significant pulmonary edema on chest x-ray. 
Abdominal CT on 7/16/05 was notable for moderate right and trace left pleural effusions. 
The patient maintained excellent pulse oximetry on room air without any respiratory compromise. 
4. Renal , upon admission , the patient was noted to have acute renal insufficiency with a creatinine of 3.2. 
The patient has a history of chronic renal insufficiency secondary to hypertensive nephropathy , diabetic nephropathy , and likely renal artery stenosis. 
Prior renal ultrasound showed an atrophic left kidney with mild decrease in perfusion. 
Following admission , the patient was initiated on D5W with 3 ampules of bicarb as well as Mucomyst in preparation for likely cardiac catheterization. 
She was continued on IV fluids following the catheterization. 
Despite these preventive measures , the patient had a marked increase in her creatinine following cardiac cath with a high creatinine of 5 on 7/20/05 . 
Renal consult was obtained and advised continued treatment. 
A urine sediment was obtained which was consistent with ATN. 
An abdominal CT showed evidence again of an atrophic left kidney. 
Creatinine was noted to begin to decrease on 7/16/05 and was 4.2 the day before discharge. 
The patient will follow up with Dr. Norseth in Nephrology within three months' time. 
5. GI , the patient was noted to have right upper quadrant abdominal pain on 7/20/05 . 
She had had mild elevations in her LFTs , most notably an alk phos of 293. 
However , these values stabilized throughout the remainder of the hospitalization. 
An abdominal CT was obtained without contrast that showed no sign of obstruction , hepatobiliary disease , but was notable for a ventral hernia that was not strangulated or incarcerated. 
The patient continued to pass and had regular bowel movements. 
She was continued on bowel regimen. 
The pain was thought to be likely secondary to ventral hernia with increased volume status. 
Therefore , she was given a mild diuresis to decrease volume overload. 
6. ID was stable. 
7. Heme , the patient was noted to have a hematocrit drop prior to cath. 
She dropped from 32 to 26. 
She was transfused two units of packed red blood cells prior to catheterization in order to keep the hematocrit greater than 30. 
There was no acute source of blood loss noted. 
Guaiac stools were negative. 
There is likely a component of anemia of chronic disease secondary to chronic renal insufficiency. 
The patient's hematocrit continued to trend down and on 7/16/05 , an abdominal CT was obtained to rule out retroperitoneal bleed , which was negative. 
The patient was transfused one unit of packed red blood cells on 7/16/05 . 
She will likely require a further anemia workup as an outpatient. 
8. FEN , the patient was not given any electrolyte scales secondary to her acute renal insufficiency. 
She was noted to have hyponatremia with a lowest of 123 and was therefore placed on free water 1.5-liter restriction with adequate resolution. 
The patient was also placed on a less than 2-gm salt restriction to decrease volume overload. 
She was noted to have an increased phosphorous level and was started on PhosLo. 
She had elevated potassiums , but this did not exceed 5. The patient was continued on a cardiac/renal 1800 ADA diet. 
Prophylaxis included SCD and Pneumoboots in the setting of anemia. 
She was continued on a proton pump inhibitor. 
CODE: The patient is DNR/DNI. 
DISPOSITION: Upon discharge , the patient was in stable condition and will be discharged home without service. 
She was able to ambulate without chest pain or shortness of breath tolerating p.o. intake well. 
She will have follow-up as noted in the addendum. 
The patient was instructed not to smoke and to take daily weights and if she gained more than 2 pounds per day or 5 pounds in a week , she was instructed to call her doctor. 
She should seek medical attention for worsening shortness of breath , chest pain , weight gain , dizziness , worsening abdominal pain , or any other concerns. 
PLAN: 1. Follow up with Dr. Lorraine , monitor for continued decrease in creatinine. 
Consider reinitiating the ACE inhibitor with resolution of acute renal insufficiency. 
Titrate the beta-blocker and restart nitrates as tolerated. 
Titrate up glipizide as needed. 
Consider further anemia workup. 
Encourage smoking sensation. 
Continue to monitor abdominal pain/LFTs and consider further evaluation of ventral hernia. 
Check LFTs with recent addition of Lipitor. 
2. Follow up with Dr. Gerchak post MI management. 
3. Follow up with Dr. Norseth for management of chronic renal insufficiency. 
eScription document: 7-6707653 CSSten Tel Dictated By: LAVERGNE , TAMEIKA Attending: SURACE , NINA Dictation ID 6885709 D: 2/16/05 T: 2/16/05