281801955 | PUO | 38766817 | | 367524 | 10/28/2000 12:00:00 AM | CARDIAC ISCHEMIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/2/2000 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 3/4/2000 SERVICE: GENERAL MEDICINE Lis PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 
2. TYPE II DIABETES. 
3. HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA. 4. CHRONIC LOW BACK PAIN. 5. L4-L5 SPONDYLOLISTHESIS. 
6. ABDOMINAL PAIN. 7. CONSTIPATION. 
8. ANEMIA. 
9. PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY. 
10. GASTROPARESIS. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mrs. Jinkens is a 66-year-old woman who presented with one week of increasing shortness of breath with exertion , increasing peripheral edema , and increasing abdominal distention. 
She denies any chest pain , palpitations , chest pressure , nausea , vomiting , or diaphoresis. 
She thought that her abdominal distention was secondary to chronic constipation and her last bowel movement was four days prior to admission. 
She felt that her abdominal distention was contributing to her shortness of breath because she was unable to take deep breaths. 
In addition , she has a long history of chronic anemia with no clear diagnosis. 
She denied any melena or bright red blood per rectum. 
She also has a long history of low back pain , so she does not lie flat to sleep. 
In addition , she complains of some early satiety. 
She denies fevers , chills , chest pain , palpitations , lightheadedness , nausea , vomiting , weight loss , or known weight gain. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Poorly controlled diabetes with intolerance to Humulin insulin ( she believes this made her retinopathy worse ) , peripheral neuropathy , gastroparesis , coronary artery disease , peripheral vascular disease , status post a left femoral popliteal bypass surgery , chronic constipation , carpal tunnel syndrome , history of Acinetobacter pneumonia in 1997 , chronic anemia , Charcot foot , status post open reduction internal fixation of a left ankle fracture , status post cholecystectomy , history of C. difficile colitis , echocardiogram in 1997 revealing left ventricular hypertrophy and ejection fraction of 55% , Persantine thallium in October of 1994 revealing moderate anterior ischemia in the left anterior descending territory. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: NPH pork insulin , 42 units q.a.m.; Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d.; Vaseretic 10/25 mg q. day; aspirin 325 mg q. day; Senokot; Niferex 150 b.i.d.; diazepam 1 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Avandia 4 mg p.o. q. day. 
ALLERGIES: Aldomet , Procardia , Darvocet causes drowsiness , Percocet causes vomiting. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives alone. 
Her son is involved in her care. 
Occasionally she lives with him. 
She does not smoke or drink. 
Her husband died of complications of a coronary artery bypass graft about one year prior to admission. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Uncomfortable secondary to distended abdomen. 
Temperature 97.3 , heart rate 73 , blood pressure 172/68 , respiratory rate 18 , 96% on room air. 
Her HEENT exam revealed a clear oropharynx , nonicteric sclerae. 
Extraocular movements were full. 
Her neck was supple with 2+ carotid upstrokes and a faint left carotid bruit. 
Jugular venous pressure was difficult to assess secondary to body habitus. 
She has bibasilar crackles in her lung fields. 
Her heart was regular rate with a normal S1 and somewhat loud S2. 
She has no murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
Her abdomen was soft , slightly distended , and obese. 
She had no shifting dullness and no hepatosplenomegaly. 
Her extremities were remarkable for 2+ pitting edema , right greater than left. 
She had weak pulses bilaterally , weaker on the left than the right. 
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Sodium 135 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 95 , bicarb 30 , BUN 34 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 212 , ALT 15 , AST 14 , alkaline phosphatase 76 , total bilirubin 0.4 , CK 53 , troponin I - 0.00 , albumin 4. White blood cell count 4.9 , hematocrit 28.3 , MCV 86 , RDW 13.3 , platelets 303. 
Urinalysis revealed 3+ leuk esterase with trace blood , too numerous to count white blood cells , and 10-15 red blood cells. 
EKG revealed normal sinus rhythm at 70 beats per minute with normal intervals and axis. 
She had an isolated Q wave in lead III. 
She also had T wave inversions in V5 and V6 which were unchanged from prior comparison EKG in 1998. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Mrs. Jinkens was initially admitted to the short stay unit for blood transfusion , workup of her chronic anemia , and diuresis for new onset congestive heart failure. 
On hospital day #2 , she developed what appeared to be a 32 beat run of ventricular tachycardia. 
She was thus transferred to the general medicine service for further management and workup. 
Her hospital course by systems is as follows: 1. NEUROLOGIC. 
Mrs. Jinkens continued to complain of low back pain which has been a chronic problem and for which she is followed by Dr. Wimpey in spine clinic here at Pagham University Of .  
She reports that he has already made arrangements for her to undergo an open MRI at the Greene Lidonimill Medical Center , as we do not have these facilities here , and will follow up with him in clinic after she has this test. 
In the past she has had cortisone injections without benefits , and it was felt that since she has no acute exacerbation of this chronic problem and already had followup in place , further consultation was not necessary during this hospitalization. 
She was reinitiated on Neurontin 300 mg q.h.s. , then increased to b.i.d. , and to be increased to t.i.d. as an outpatient. 
She reports that with this regimen she finally was able to sleep at night and reports a significant improvement in her neuropathic pain secondary to diabetic neuropathy as well as sciatica. 
2. CARDIOVASCULAR. 
Mrs. Jinkens was aggressively diuresed for fluid overload in the setting of new congestive heart failure. 
She responded well to IV Lasix. 
She had a cardiology consultation , and they determined that the ventricular tachycardia noted on the monitor was actually an artifact and not real. 
A long discussion between the patient , her son , and her primary care doctor was undertaken. 
Mrs. Jinkens expressed her fervent desire not to undergo cardiac catheterization or coronary artery bypass grafting because of her husband's traumatic experience with these procedures. 
Given her reluctance to undergo intervention , further diagnostic studies were deferred , such as stress testing. 
Her medical management was further optimized. 
She was continued on enteric coated aspirin. 
Her beta blocker dose was increased to 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. of atenolol with heart rate control. 
Her ACE inhibitor dose was also increased. 
Simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. was added for LDL cholesterol of 184. 
In addition , Isordil was added to her cardiac regimen to decrease preload. 
She will be discharged on 160 mg p.o. q. day of Lasix. 
She was told that her dose may change , depending on her daily weights at home , and this should be coordinated with the visiting nurse as well as her primary care doctor. 
3. GASTROINTESTINAL. 
Mrs. Jinkens continued to complain of nonspecific abdominal pain as well as constipation while in the hospital. 
She also had a significant bout of nausea and vomiting. 
She was given an aggressive bowel regimen including enemas , with good response. 
On 3/23 , because of persistent abdominal pain and a somewhat more firm abdomen , a KUB and upright was performed which was within normal limits. 
The next day her pain , nausea , and vomiting had significantly resolved with the addition of Reglan to her medical regimen for presumed diabetic gastroparesis. 
4. ENDOCRINE. 
A hemoglobin A1c was checked during this admission and was 9.5. 
Because of persistently high morning sugars , 8 units of NPH at night was begun in addition to her 45 units q.a.m. 
Her blood sugars remained under 200 with this regimen. 
5. HEMATOLOGIC. 
Mrs. Jinkens initially presented with a drop in her hematocrit to 28. 
She was transfused two units of packed red blood cells with an appropriate increase in her hematocrit. 
Iron studies as well as B12 and folate levels were checked and were within normal limits. 
LDH , bilirubin , and haptoglobin were also within normal limits. 
Her hematocrit remained stable throughout the further course of her hospitalization. 
6. INFECTIOUS DISEASE. 
Mrs. Jinkens received a total of three days of levofloxacin for a urinary tract infection. 
7. Finally , she was seen both by physical therapy and occupational therapy and home referrals were put in place. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q. day; atenolol 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Lasix 160 mg p.o. q. day; Lactulose 30 cc p.o. b.i.d. , and can increase to q.i.d. as needed; lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q. day; Reglan 10 mg p.o. q.i.d.; Niferex 150 , 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Senna tablets , two tabs p.o. b.i.d.; simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.h.s.; Neurontin 300 mg p.o. b.i.d. x2 days , and then increase to 300 mg p.o. t.i.d.; NPH insulin ( pork ) 45 units subcu q.a.m. , 8 units subcu q.p.m.; diazepam 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. anxiety; nitroglycerin 1/150 , one tab sublingual q.5min. 
x3 p.r.n. chest pain; Oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. back pain , not to exceed four tablets per day; Motrin 600 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. back pain , not to exceed four tablets per day. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. 
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to home with home services. 
She will have visiting nurse to check her blood pressure , heart rate , and breathing status. 
In addition , she was instructed to weigh herself each day at home and to record those weights. 
She is to call her primary care doctor if her weight increases by more than 2 pounds , and was told that she would likely be instructed to increase her dose to b.i.d. 
She will have a Chem-7 drawn by the visiting nurse this Monday. 
Finally , she will have both home physical therapy and occupational therapy services. 
She should follow up with her primary care doctor , Dr. Osten , in one to three weeks. 
She was also instructed to keep her MRI appointment at the Greene Lidonimill Medical Center , and then to see Dr. Wimpey in spine clinic after this test was performed. 
Dictated By: FRAN BUSSLER , M.D. TW36 Attending: COLIN E. NAJI , M.D. IC05  LG299/2346 Batch: 2092 Index No. ISVC9Y3X98 D: 4/30 T: 4/30