265806893 | PUO | 09555241 | | 046462 | 10/11/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/2/1991 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/11/1991 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: LYMPHOMA. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 43-year-old with an FUO recently admitted for further work-up of fever. 
Approximately 12 weeks ago , the patient noted the onset of fevers , intermittent to 102 or 103 , nonproductive cough , arthralgias , myalgias , sweats and chills. 
There was some diffuse abdominal pain. 
The patient has had recurrent fevers and was admitted to Pagham University Of on 12/10/91 for a work-up. 
This together with CHH work-up has been fairly extensive. 
He was discharged from the hospital two weeks ago and five days ago after afebrile days , he began having fevers again. 
He was admitted at this time for further work-up. 
He has had three episodes of nausea and vomiting during the febrile episodes in the last week. 
He has been passing gas and has been constipated. 
He also noted a productive cough. 
HIV risk factors were negative. 
Work-up has included chest CT which revealed enlarged diaphragmatic lymph nodes , coronary artery calcium deposits and two small liver cysts. 
Pelvic CT revealed retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy with a second cecum. 
Chest x-ray was normal. 
Testicular ultrasound revealed no masses. 
Abdominal ultrasound was normal with ectatic aorta. 
Upper GI series revealed nodularity to the mucosa within the gastric antrum , question focal gastritis. 
Endoscopy with biopsy revealed gastritis , no evidence of malignancy. 
Serology revealed hepatitis A IgM antibody negative , hepatitis A IgG antibody positive , hepatitis surface antigen negative , rubella immune , RPR negative , Toxo negative , CMV negative , HSV positive ( old infection ). 
Lyme titer was 11.7 ( normal is 0-9 ). 
PPD was negative. 
SPEP normal. 
AFP , beta hCG , CEA negative. 
Malaria screens were negative. 
B-12 and folate were normal. 
HIV was negative. 
Multiple blood and urine cultures all negative. 
ALLERGIES: PENICILLIN. 
MEDICATIONS: On admission included Tylenol and Percocet. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission revealed a temperature of 103.4. 
HEENT exam was within normal limits. 
Lungs were clear. 
Neck was supple with no jugular venous distention , there was some shotty lymphadenopathy. 
Cardiac exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
Abdomen revealed positive bowel sounds , some mild tenderness , question enlarged liver edge. 
There was positive inguinal lymphadenopathy. 
Extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis or edema , positive lichen planus. 
Neurological exam was nonfocal. 
Rectal exam was deferred. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was seen by both Infectious Disease Service and Hematology Oncology Service. 
The patient had an ANA which was negative. 
Rheumatoid factor was negative. 
Lyme titer was 4.5. 
Hepatitis C was negative. 
CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis done on 10/11 showed essentially no change with multiple retroperitoneal lymph nodes , possible increased size of the left external inguinal lymph node. 
The ultrasound of the abdomen was negative for gallstones or biliary duct dilatation but showed an abdominal aortic aneurysm of 2.5 cm. 
The patient had a bone marrow biopsy which showed large atypical cells infiltrating with fibrosis , a picture consistent with Hodgkin's disease involving the bone marrow. 
The patient had defervesced and was scheduled for discharge on the day which the bone marrow biopsy results were received. 
He was informed of the diagnosis and is to follow-up with Dr. Grap on an outpatient basis. 
EJ666/1399 MELDA XIAO IVASKA , M.D. JR0 D: 8/5/91 Batch: 9589 Report: Y5578W57 T: 4/1/91 Dictated By: KRISTIAN N. MAGLIONE , M.D.