382063361 | PUO | 51031594 | | 4596906 | 11/16/2006 12:00:00 AM | UROSEPSIS , ATRIAL FIBRILLATION | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 3/15/2006 Report Status: Unsigned 

Discharge Date: 7/27/2006 ATTENDING: HOLLON , MARLEEN ALBINA M.D. SERVICE: GMS Lumli Wayne A intern. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Seizure and urosepsis. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 75-year-old female with history of left MCA stroke with residual right-sided weakness , vascular dementia , insulin-dependent diabetes , CAD with recent admission for proteus UTI , admitted with mental status changes , possible tonic-clonic seizure , new atrial fibrillation with RVR , and hypotension in setting of presumed urosepsis. 
The patient presented from her nursing home on responses status post witness seizure activity and new onset atrial fibrillation with RVR. 
The patient recently admitted on 10/22 with proteus UTI requiring intubation , discharged to rehabilitation and extensive courses of cefpodoxime. 
As per the EMS , the patient had tonic-clonic seizure activity with tachycardiac to 180s and desaturated to 70%. 
Notable studies at that time , chest x-ray without obvious infiltrate , head CT without acute changes or left MCA territory infarct was noted. 
Urinalysis is notable for grossly infected urine. 
The patient was admitted to the MICU where the patient was aggressively resuscitated with normalization of blood pressure. 
The patient's urine culture grew enterococcus and she was treated with ceftazidime and vancomycin given her history of MRSA and proteus UTI. 
The patient was weight controlled with IV Lopressor and transferred to GMS service. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As follows , left MCA stroke , which resulted in visible right-sided weakness and dysarthria , insulin-dependent diabetes , neuropathy , nephropathy , CAD. 
The MIBI was on done in 3/3 , which showed a reversible anteroapical defect , hypertension , peripheral vascular disease , status post right fifth toe amputation , status post left fem bypass , also vascular dementia , chronic kidney disease with creatinines of 1.8-2 , GERD , cataracts , depression , venous insufficiency with right heel ulcer , left heel ulcer with underlying osteomyelitis , angina , status post right mastectomy for distant breast cancer , status post cholecystectomy , TAH , open distal right tibial fracture in 11/24 .  
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Afebrile , pulse 83 , blood pressure is ranging from 110-150/70-80 , O2 sat 100% on room air. 
She has regular rate and rhythm in sinus. 
Extremity exam is notable for 2+ edema bilaterally right greater than left , upper arm erythema near her PICC site , which is not new. 
Heel dressings clean , dry , and intact. 
Neuro exam was notable for baseline right hemiparesis and aphasia. 
Pupils of left are greater than right. 
Left is surgical pupils and both reactive. 
At baseline , she has repetitive speech and also had a history of screaming when wake at night that can be sued by direction with people. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEMS: 1. ID: Admitted with urosepsis , afebrile , leukocytosis resolving , and urine culture from admit not growing enterococcus-VRE on IV Linezolid for better absorption. 
Instruction: Finished 14-day course of Linezolid today day six. 
Renal ultrasound was negative for hydro , patient incontinent , passing urine , has been afebrile with normal white blood cell count and blood pressure. 
2. CV: Ischemia: History of CAD , enzymes negative x3 here. 
Had ST depressions on EKG initially. 
EKG is normal since continue aspirin , statin beta-blocker , pump. 
No known history of CHF , EF 55% , total body fluid overloaded. 
We have restarted Lasix 20 daily , blood pressures had been elevated. 
The patient is treated right now with Lopressor , Catapres patch versus currently 12.5 mg t.i.d. 
Instruction: Please titrate as necessary to home dose of Toprol XL 50 daily. 
Instruction: Continue clonidine patch , add Imdur as necessary. 
Rate: Atrial fibrillation with RVR visit admit likely secondary to sepsis has been in normal sinus. 
No Coumadin now. 
Rate controlled with IV Lopressor and on aspirin 81. 
If the patient is in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation can consider increasing to aspirin 325 mg later in a week. 
3. Neuro: Possible seizures secondary to urosepsis. 
EEG negative for epileptic form activity , but the patient is currently on Dilantin for goal equal to 10 , last level was 8.7 corrected for albumin is 13.5 , currently on Dilantin 100 mg t.i.d. 
Instructions: We checked Dilantin level in one week - history of CVA , left MCA stroke , has right-sided weakness not new. 
Question of new stroke clinically on 11/24 was seen by Neurology , but they think most likely just Haldol effect and type of old left MCA stroke. 
The patient with improved exam in 7/28 , so no MRI indicated in the future. 
The patient does require MRI , must get consent from family , discussed with her orthopedist and radiology. 
The pain is in her right foot and contact Dr. Hermina T Tuomala from ortho at Pande Memorial Hospital , 164-684-3971. 
Mental status remains poor and per the patient's husband the patient is intermittently conversant at home and occasionally screams at rehab. 
Give Haldol if the patient inconsolable. 
Home regimen was Remeron , Prozac , and Seroquel. 
We have held the Remeron to do its interaction with clonidine and it is decreased after she had the clonidine for hypertension and also had held Prozac which has caused serotonin syndrome with the Linezolid on board. 
Instructions: Consider restarting these antidepressants once off Linezolid. 
Instructions: The patient takes meds. 
If husband around so may want at time p.o. meds around this. 4. Heme: The patient has been PF4 positive , but platelets are normal. 
5. Pulm: Sating well on room air. 
Normal chest x-ray. 
6. Endo: History of insulin-dependent diabetes , on insulin and glipizide on rehab and now on insulin sliding scale. 
Has recently started p.o. feeding. 
Currently on insulin sliding scales for transfer. 
Instructions: Conversion to glipizide 40 nightly as at home with increasing p.o. intake. 
7. FEN: The patient passed speech and swallow. 
Currently on prune , honey , and liquids therefore now. 
8. Prophylaxis: On Nexium , off Lovenox for transfer. 
The patient is full code. 
HOME MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg daily , Toprol XL 50 mg daily , multivitamins , Artificial Tears , mirtazapine 10 mg nightly , glipizide 40 mg nightly , Xalatan one drop in each eye nightly , Seroquel 50 mg q.p.m. , 20 mg q.a.m. , Prilosec 20 , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg , Lasix 20 , Catapres patch every Thursday , Combivent t.i.d. , Imdur 90 daily , Lipitor 40 mg nightly , Prozac 20 mg nightly , Dulcolax nightly , Tylenol b.i.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , Sena , Mycolog cream to groin b.i.d. p.r.n. , Mylanta one to two nightly p.r.n. , lorazepam 0.5 q.4 h. 
p.r.n. 
ALLERGIES: Ace inhibitors , she gets hyperkalemia. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: As follows , Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6 h. 
p.r.n. for pain , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , Dilantin 15 mL p.o. q.4 h. 
upset stomach , Artificial Tears one drop in each eye at night , aspart sliding scale subcutaneous before and after meals , Lipitor 40 mg p.o. daily , Dulcolax 5 mg p.o. bedtime p.r.n. constipation , Catapres patch 0.1 mg per day topically changed every week , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Nexium 20 mg b.i.d. , Lasix 20 mg daily , Combivent two puffs inhaled q.i.d. , lactulose 30 mL p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , Xalatan one drop in each eye bedtime , Nasalide 600 mg IV q.12 h. 
, Ativan 0.5 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. anxiety , Maalox one to two tablets p.o. q.6 h. 
p.r.n. upset stomach , milk of magnesia 30 mL p.o. daily p.r.n. constipation , Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. hold if heart rate less than 60 , blood pressure less than 100 , Mycolog topical applied to groin b.i.d. , Dilantin 300 mg p.o. daily , Seroquel 50 mg p.o. q.p.m. , Sena liquid one teaspoon p.o. bedtime , multivitamin 5 mL p.o. daily. 
Holding the following medications from home are Imdur , Remeron , and Prozac. 
In addition , the following medications should be titrated following transfer as the patient tolerates. 
Titrate from Lopressor 12.5 mg t.i.d. to Toprol XL 50 mg daily as the patient tolerates. 
Change over the patient from insulin sliding scale to glipizide 40 mg nightly. 
Restart hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg daily and if needed we start Imdur. 
The patient has been held on the Prozac again for possible serotonin syndrome and interaction since the patient is on Linezolid 600 mg IV q.12 h. 
Also add mirtazapine as necessary , but beware of interaction with clonidine. 
The patient is full code. 
eScription document: 5-7462854 CSSten Tel Dictated By: HOLLWAY , TABATHA Attending: HOLLON , MARLEEN ALBINA Dictation ID 6915987 D: 3/8/06 T: 8/27/06