761622641 | PUO | 80826409 | | 9989173 | 7/25/2005 12:00:00 AM | SYNCOPE , LEFT SHOULDRE FRACTURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/25/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 1/2/2005 ATTENDING: BRAGAS , RASHEEDA MD HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 68-year-old female with history of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension , hyperlipidemia with a known EF of 25 to 30% and history of Graves disease who presents to us after a fall at home with a chief complaint of left shoulder pain. 
The patient states on the morning of admission , she had a slight headache and dizziness , but felt better after eating breakfast , was approaching her daughter , answered the doorbell when she fell. 
She denies associated shortness of breath , chest pain , lightheadedness , nausea , vomiting , warmth. 
The patient states she was wearing shoes , did not believe she tripped. 
No history of seizure activity , postictal state , or loss of bowel or bladder incontinence. 
After the fall , she complained of left shoulder pain with movement. 
The patient denies loss of consciousness , head trauma. 
Started a new medication , gabapentin , this week. 
In the ED , she was found to have a fracture of her left surgical humeral neck and was given Tylenol and Toradol for pain. 
CAT scan revealed no acute events. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with the last A1c of 11.9 , known retinopathy and neuropathy , hypertension , history of hypertensive encephalopathy , history of Graves disease , CHF , with a known EF of 25 to 30% , concentric LVH , and pulmonary pressures of 52 plus right atrial pressure , dermatomyositis , arthritis , cataracts , B12 diffeciency , stress urinary incontinence , status post total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , previous syncopal episode in 2001 where she underwent a Bruce protocol , stress maybe with poor exercise tolerance with 50% of heart rate and stopped secondary to fatigue. 
ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to penicillin , aspirin , codeine , and simvastatin. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Include metformin 400 mg q.d. , insulin 80 units subcutaneously q.h.s. , atenolol 100 mg , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg , Vasotec 40 mg , pravastatin 20 mg , Neurontin 300 mg t.i.d. , amitriptyline 10 mg q.h.s. , and folate. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone in the first floor of her apartment with no stairs. 
She is a 30-pack-year smoker , quit approximately 30 years ago. 
No alcohol use. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative. 
no fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , or changes in appetite. 
No bright red blood per rectum or black tarry stools. 
No cough. 
No dysuria or urinary frequency. 
No constipation or diarrhea. 
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was afebrile. 
Heart rate in the 50s. 
BP 130/70 , respiratory rate 16 , satting 99% on room air. 
The patient was in no acute distress , pleasant , complaining of left arm pain with movement. 
Mucous membranes are moist. 
No lymphadenopathy. 
No thyromegaly. 
Oropharynx is clear. 
Chest is clear to auscultation bilaterally aside from some bilateral wheezes in the bases. 
The patient was bradycardic. 
S1 and S2. Distant heart sounds. 
No murmurs , gallops , or rubs appreciated. 
Abdomen is obese. 
Soft , nontender , and nondistended. 
Positive bowel sounds. 
Extremities exam significant for left shoulder extreme tenderness to palpation and movement with noticeable edema. 
Pulses are intact bilaterally. 
Skin is clean , dry , and intact. 
No rashes. 
The patient is alert and oriented x3. 
Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact , moving all extremities. 
No pronator drift. 
Reflexes are symmetric. 
LABORATORY DATA: Significant for potassium of 5.8 , creatinine of 1.0 , 0.8 baseline. 
WBC 10 , hematocrit 34.5. 
Cardiac enzymes negative x1. TSH of 27 , T3 109 , T4 4.9. 
Chest x-ray is clear , notable for cardiomegaly. 
IMPRESSION: The patient is a 58-year-old female with history of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , with an EF of 25 to 30% , graves disease , presents status post fall , denies loss of consciousness. 
Syncope workup in ??___?? rule out myocardial infarction , arrhythmia , cerebrovascular accident , transient ischemic attacks. 
In addition , the patient with left surgical humeral neck fracture and positive UA. Etiology of syncope unclear. 
The patient was bradycardic on admission , may have been over beta-blocker , also with positive urinary tract infection. 
In addition , the patient experienced multiple episodes of a.m. 
hyperglycemia , which may have been contributing. 
PLAN BY SYSTEMS: 1. Cardiovascular: A. Ischemia: The patient completed a complete rule out MI workup with negative enzymes and no EKG changes. 
The patient was maintained on beta-blocker , ACE inhibitor , and statin. 
No aspirin given secondary to allergy. 
The patient had a repeat echo on May , 2005 , which showed an EF of 45% and mild global hypokinesis and left atrial enlargement. 
B. Rhythm: Significant for bradycardia. 
Lopressor was started inhouse in order to better titrate pulse rate. 
The patient was changed to Coreg 6.25 mg b.i.d. and titrated to 12 mg b.i.d. , well tolerated. 
No further episodes of bradycardia. 
2. Renal: Baseline creatinine 0.8. 
Creatinine on admission 1.0 , remained stable , no issues. 
3. Infectious Disease: Positive UA on admission. 
Completed 3-day course of ciprofloxacin. 
No chronic complaints. 
4. Fluids , Electrolytes , and Nutrition: The patient was maintained on ADA low-salt cardiac diet , repeat it with potassium and magnesium scales. 
Hematocrit remained low at 34.5 , but remained stable. 
The patient was maintained on folate and B12. 
The patient should continue workup of anemia as an outpatient. 
5. Endocrine: Initially continued Lantus 80 units subcutaneously q.h.s. with insulin sliding scale. 
However , secondary to a.m. 
hyperglycemia , changed Lantus to q.a.m. and added q.a.c. short-acting insulin for better control. 
The patient was not restarted on metformin as an inpatient. 
In addition , PFTs revealed a mild hypothyroidism with low free T4. 
The patient was started on Synthroid , and she should continue to follow thyroid function tests as an outpatient. 
Orthopedic was consulted regarding humerus fracture. 
The patient was splinted by Ortho , and she should follow up in clinic as indicated. 
Pain control was initially given allergy to Codeine. 
Trial of around the clock Tylenol alternating with Lidoderm patch were effective. 
The patient also received physical therapy as an inpatient and will benefit from continued PT at rehabilitation. 
Followup is scheduled with Ortho in the discharge summary. 
6. 
The patient was continued on amitriptyline q.h.s. for prophylaxis. 
The patient was given Nexium and Lovenox. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 500 mg p.o. q.4h. 
, amitriptyline 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , Dulcolax 10 mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation , B12 50 mcg p.o. q.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Vasotec 40 mg p.o. q.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , HCTZ 25 mg p.o. q.d. , insulin regular sliding scale q.a.c. , lactulose 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , Synthroid 50 mcg p.o. q.d. , magnesium gluconate sliding scale , milk of magnesia 30 mg p.o. p.r.n. constipation , senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. , pravastatin 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Neurontin 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Imdur 60 mg p.o. q.d. , Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneously q.d. , Ultram 50 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. pain , Coreg 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , insulin glargine 80 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , Lidoderm 5% patch topical q.d. , NovoLog 4 units subcutaneously a.c. 
FOLLOWUP APPOINTMENTS: The patient has a followup appointment with Ortho Trauma Clinic on February , 2005 , at 8:30. 
After discharge from VLH , the patient should schedule a PCP followup appointment. 
Any questions may be answered by Dr. Rasheeda Bragas . 
eScription document: 0-5791442 SSSten Tel CC: Primary Care Physician Dictated By: YEAGLEY , MA Attending: BRAGAS , RASHEEDA Dictation ID 7819699 D: 9/10/05 T: 9/10/05