196429612 | PUO | 75809913 | | 538755 | 5/12/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 4/20/1991 Report Status: Unsigned 

Discharge Date: 7/9/1991 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 35 year old black female , gravida I , para l , last menstrual period 9/7/9l with a chief complaint of menorrhagia and a large fibroid uterus. 
Patient had a history of chronic pelvic pain for the past three years with lower back pain. 
She has had a history of known fibroids and at the time of this surgery , was requesting definitive surgery. 
She has a history of a heart murmur , was seen by Cardiology in 9/6 , and cleared with a normal echocardiogram and no need for SBE prophylaxis. 
Her EKG was within normal limits except for sinus tachycardia. 
The patient is status post a cesarean section. 
Other medical problems include that she has recently diagnosed diabetes and takes Glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d. 
ALLERGIES: She has no allergies. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Her heart rate was 96 , her respiratory rate was l2 , blood pressure ll0/70 , and temperature was 98.9. 
She was an obese black female in no acute distress. 
HEENT: Negative. 
BREASTS: Clear without masses. 
LUNGS: Clear. 
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm with a I/VI systolic ejection murmur. 
ABDOMEN: Soft and non-tender with a previous midline vertical incision secondary to her previous cesarean section. 
PELVIC: She had a fourteen to sixteen week size fibroid uterus and her adnexa were unable to be evaluated. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Patient had a pre-operative hematocrit of 35.3. 
Her height was five foot two and she was l80 pounds. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was taken to the Operating Room on 2/6/9l with a pre-operative diagnosis of fibroid uterus , pelvic pain , and menorrhagia. 
Post-operative diagnosis was same. 
In addition , there were extensive pelvic adhesions. 
Procedure was exploratory laparotomy , lysis of adhesions , total abdominal hysterectomy , and left salpingo-oophorectomy. 
Surgeon was Dr. Kam Isa and assistant was Dr. Sana Azua . 
Anesthesia was general per endotracheal tube. 
Estimated blood loss was 500 cc. 
There were no complications. 
Operative findings included the uterus to be enlarged at approximately twelve to fourteen weeks in size and slightly boggy. 
Both ovaries and tubes were densely adherent to her pelvic sidewalls and the cul-de-sac. 
She had adhesions of the cul-de-sac and rectosigmoid to the posterior portion of the uterus. 
She also had omental adhesions to the anterior abdominal wall in the upper abdomen. 
Patient's Pathology Report revealed , of the uterus , leiomyomata with multiple serosal adhesions with proliferative endometrium and adenomyosis. 
The left tube revealed endometriosis and left ovary hemorrhagic corpus luteum. 
Her cervix was noted to have mucinous mucus cyst. 
Patient had a stable post-operative course. 
On post-operative day one , her Foley was discontinued. 
She was started on sips of clears and had a low grade temperature to l00.6. 
Her hematocrit was 30.4 with a white count of ll.l and a platelet count of 336. 
Her urinalysis was clear. 
On post-operative day three , she was advanced to a regular diet. 
She had a low grade temperature to l00 and was continued on nebulizers. 
It was felt her low grade temperature was secondary to atelectasis. 
Her urine culture was negative. 
She had one episode of vomiting on post-operative day four which was felt to be secondary to a mild ileus. 
She had a KUB obtained which was contained with a post-operative ileus with no dilated loops and few air fluid levels. 
On post-operative day five , she was feeling better. 
On post-operative day six , she was placed on clears and was then advanced to a regular diet on post-operative day six. 
She is discharged home on post-operative day seven in stable condition tolerating a regular diet after having had a bowel movement. 
DISPOSITION: She will follow-up with Dr. Kam Isa at CHH .  
VO467/1009 KAM R. ISA , III , M.D CY53 D: 1/27/91 Batch: 0015 Report: W7170U9 T: 9/27/91 Dictated By: TRISH L. CHAIX , M.D. OT39