007844210 | PUO | 44738326 | | 0581606 | 8/6/2006 12:00:00 AM | RIGHT CHRONIC LEG ULCER | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/6/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 1/16/2006 Date of Admission: 3/6/2006 ATTENDING: BILSBOROUGH , MOHAMED BEA MD ADDENDUM: ADMISSION TO THE ICU: 2/8/06 . 
This will be the hospital course and plan as well as the discharge medications. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Lower extremity wounds: The patient had several left lower extremity wounds which by report had been chronic as well as a deeper acute onset right lower extremity wound which was ulcerated to the level of muscle. 
It was thought that this wound had occurred as a result of a hematoma after incision and drainage by Surgical Service one to two weeks prior to admission. 
There was no obvious evidence of infection , however , it is certainly possible that there is a soft tissue surrounding that ulcer. 
There was some thought of whether that could be osteomyelitis underlying the ulcer. 
The patient had tibial and fibula films which at first there was some consideration of whether there was abnormality to the bone. 
On further consideration , it was felt this is most likely not the case , however , to evaluate more specifically a bone scan was performed. 
There was no uptake in the area of that ulcer , however , there was some mild uptake at the left Achilles tendon calcaneal insertion and marked uptake in the T9 thoracic 9th vertebrae. 
A CAT scan of the spine was performed which revealed no evidence of infection or neoplasm but there was evidence of osteopenia and possibly a microfracture but no evidence of real compression fracture. 
The patient was seen and examined by the Vascular Surgery Consult Service and Dr. Derham , her primary vascular surgeon. 
Their recommendation in terms of wound dressing was three times a day , wet-to-dry dressing changes with 4 x 8 gauze sponges. 
It was recommended that the patient follow up with Dr. Derham in mid 9/6 .  
Please call Dr. Derham 's office for an appointment. 
The recommendation for three times a day wet-to-dry dressings without additional ointments or treatments. 
The patient should be followed by wound care service. 
In addition , the patient has small necrotic regions on her heels. 
These should be treated with Panafil. 
In terms of her sacral decubitus ulcer , the patient was seen by the Plastic Surgery Service , they debrided the wound twice , there was minimal amount of superficial necrotic tissue which was excised. 
Their recommendations for further care were to apply one-quarter strength Dakin's solution soaked wet-to-dry dressings to be changed twice a day for 48 hours that will be for 36 hours from discharge and then this treatment should be changed to standard wet-to-dry dressings twice daily to that sacral decubitus ulcer. 
They recommend that she be placed on an air mattress. 
She should have turns at least every 2 hours. 
They also recommend that her weight be kept off the sacrum and that her nutrition be optimized. 
She was placed on a multivitamin , continued on calcium , started on zinc , vitamin C supplements as well. 
The patient should follow up with Dr. Naomi Wolfensperger as an outpatient. 
This should be scheduled by calling 485-632-1119. 
2. Infectious disease: The patient was initially admitted with a low-grade temperature. 
It was unclear whether she had a primary infection and what the source of that infection was. 
Cultures were taken from blood , urine , and sputum. 
All blood cultures were negative. 
Urine culture grew extended spectrum beta-lactamase resistant Klebsiella pneumonia which was intermediate to ciprofloxacin and sensitive to levofloxacin. 
Because the patient has so little urine output it was unclear whether at first this was a colonizer or an actual infection. 
Infectious disease consultation was requested. 
Their recommendations were to start ciprofloxacin and then this was changed to levofloxacin when the final susceptibilities came back and they continued that for a two-week course. 
She is currently on levofloxacin 500 mg IV q.48h. 
This course will finish on 9/4/06 . 
Sputum cultures grew multidrug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa as well as a few Acinetobacter which were also resistant to many antibiotics. 
After close consultation with Infectious Disease Consultation Service it was decided that these were most likely colonizers. 
There was no evidence of an acute pneumonia or tracheobronchitis and the patient was not treated for her colonization with Acinetobacter and Pseudomonas. 
In the past she has had multiple other multiple drug resistant organisms that grew from her sputum cultures at other institutions and it was felt that unless she demonstrated evidence of clinical pulmonary infection these should not be treated. 
Overall , her hemodynamic status was stable and she was afebrile throughout her course. 
Several days into her admission , however , she did have one episode of low blood pressure initially treated with intravenous fluids and then norepinephrine infusion for short period of time. 
However , on repeat cuff pressure manually it was revealed that her blood pressure actually was normal and that there was dysfunction possibly because of her obesity of the automatic cuff , therefore it was thought that this low blood pressure was spurious and probably an artifact of the cuff that was being used. 
So in conclusion the only medication on discharge will be levofloxacin 500 mg q.48h. 
through 9/4/06 . 
3. Cardiovascular: The patient has a history of coronary artery disease and atrial fibrillation. 
She was on Toprol 12.5 mg by mouth two times a day throughout her stay. 
Her heart rate ranged from 120s-130s when she was first admitted to 50s-60s on discharge. 
This should be readdressed regularly in terms of her need for rate control. 
At this point , she will be discharged on that low dose of beta-blocker. 
Otherwise , she was admitted on Coumadin with a INR of 2-3 for her St. Jude's aortic valve. 
Her INR was therapeutic on admission. 
This was actually discontinued after a couple of days in anticipation of a possible procedure. 
It was restarted three days prior to discharge. 
She was on heparin as a bridge for anticoagulation in the meantime. 
She should be continued on the heparin with a goal PTT of 50-70 until her INR is therapeutic at 2-3 and this should be rechecked to make sure that her INR remains therapeutic. 
Her care was discussed with her primary cardiologist , Dr. Brittaney Hamblet . 
4. Endocrine: The patient has a history of type 2 diabetes. 
Her diabetes was controlled with insulin NPH 35 units subcutaneous every morning with a regular insulin sliding scale every 6 hours as well. 
This should be continued and fingersticks should be done every 6 hours. 
The patient also has a history of hypothyroidism. 
Her thyroid stimulating hormone level was checked and was found to be elevated at 14.5. 
Her thyroid replacement dose was increased from 75 mcg per day to 88 mcg a day. 
Her thyroid stimulating hormone level should be checked again in four to six weeks and dose adjustment accordingly. 
5. Pulmonary: The patient was continued on her mechanical ventilation. 
There were attempts at lower pressure support and even spontaneously breathing trials. 
She was not able to tolerate these for a long period of time , however , it does seem that she has improved to some degree in terms of her ventilatory mechanics. 
She is currently on pressure support ventilation at 15 of pressure support and 5 of positive end expiratory pressure with an FIO2 of 0.4. 
We believe that she could probably be weaned slowly to significantly decreased pressure support and I believe most likely she will be able at some point to be taken off the ventilator , although this is certainly not certain. 
She will be continued on her nebulizer treatments. 
6. Nutrition: The patient was continued on tube feeds. 
She is on full strength Nepro at 50 cc per hour. 
In addition , she is getting vitamin C supplementation , ascorbic acid 500 mg by mouth two times a day , Nephrocaps , zinc sulfate 220 mg by mouth daily and these should be continued as indicated for her renal failure and wound healing. 
7. Psychiatric: The patient was continued on her home dose of fluoxetine 20 mg by G tube daily and on Zyprexa 10 mg by G tube at bedtime. 
8. Prophylaxis: Throughout her stay , the patient was continued on her home esomeprazole 40 mg by G tube twice a day and for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis , her INR on Coumadin remained above 1.4 and her PTT was kept therapeutic on intravenous heparin. 
Intravenous heparin should be continued with PTT checks on admission and then every 6 hours unit they were fairly stable between 50 and 70 and that should be monitored at least daily until her INR is stably therapeutic. 
It will be very important to monitor her INR carefully while she is on levofloxacin as well. 
9. Access: The patient has a left-sided midline which was placed in mid 8/6 .  
This should be removed within the next one week and another line placed as preferred by the rehabilitation physician. 
In addition , the patient's dialysis catheter while functional does seem to have eroded through the skin below her clavicle. 
The hemodialysis service should be aware and consider replacement as indicated. 
At this point there is no indication of infection of either of those lines , however , she is at high risk of infection of both. 
10. 
Renal: The patient was continued on her hemodialysis as per the Renal Service. 
Please feel free to contact Dr. Mohamed B Bilsborough , the patient's ICU physician here at Pagham University Of with any questions you may have. 
As noted in the dictation , the patient should follow up within the next three to four weeks with Dr. Derham of Vascular Surgery and also with the Plastic Surgery Service. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1. Vitamin C 500 mg by G tube two times a day. 
2. Peridex mouthwash 15 mL twice a day. 
3. Fluoxetine 20 mg by G tube daily. 
4. Heparin intravenous 1050 units per hour , this will be adjusted based on her PTT from this morning which is not yet available. 
5. Insulin NPH 35 units subcutaneous every morning. 
6. Insulin regular sliding scale subcutaneous q.6h. 
based on fingersticks. 
7. Atrovent inhaler 8 puffs by ventilator q.6h. 
8. Levoxyl 88 mcg by G tube daily. 
9. Metoprolol 12.5 mg by G tube twice a day. 
10. 
Dakin's solution one-quarter strength topical for 48 hours two times per day and then resume wet-to-dry dressings as dictated. 
11. 
Ursodiol 600 mg by G tube daily. 
12. Coumadin 4 mg by G tube q.p.m. , follow INR closely while on levofloxacin. 
13. 
Zinc sulfate 220 mg by mouth daily. 
14. 
Simvastatin 10 mg by G tube at bedtime. 
15. 
Olanzapine 10 mg by G tube at bedtime. 
16. 
Levofloxacin 500 mg IV q.48h. 
through the date specified above. 
17. Nephrocaps one tab by G tube daily. 
18. Miconazole powder to affected areas twice a day. 
19. 
Keppra 500 mg by G tube daily and 250 mg supplemental dose by G tube after hemodialysis. 
20. Esomeprazole 40 mg by G tube twice a day. 
21. Panafil spray topical three times a day to heels with dressing changes. 
22. Papain and urea topical three times a day , to only be used for those heels if Panafil spray not available. 
eScription document: 8-9011365 EMSSten Tel CC: Mohamed Bea Bilsborough MD Du Ge Sti STREET , O FRY HOSPITAL Wood Pring Sun Dictated By: BIRDETTE , KATHARYN Attending: BILSBOROUGH , MOHAMED BEA Dictation ID 6514492 D: 11/12/06 T: 11/12/06