335530998 | PUO | 01416153 | | 4560429 | 8/27/2006 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/27/2006 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: ATTENDING: NAKAI , RHEBA MD PRIMARY CARE PHYSICIAN: Dr. Bryan Gaar , 390-986-6828 CHIEF COMPLAINT: Sepsis. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Flow is an 83-year-old woman with multiple medical problems including CAD status post CABG , diabetes mellitus , CHF ( EF 55% ) and atrial fibrillation who presented with hypotension , likely secondary to sepsis from right lower extremity cellulitis. 
She developed the right lower extremity cellulitis one month ago. 
Two days prior to admission , pt developed worsening erythema , edema and tenderness along with chills and sweats. 
She was brought into the emergency room on 8/7/06 and was found to be hypotensive with a systolic blood pressure in the 80s. 
She was given IV fluids and started on vancomycin , aztreonam , and clindamycin , but remained hypotensive. 
She was started on dopamine , Levophed and vasopressin as well as Decadron. 
Surgery was consulted for biopsy as to rule out the possibility of necrotizing fascitis. 
A CT of her lower extremity was done in the ED and she was admitted to the MICU. 
Pt's blood cultures grew group A streptococcus. 
Her wound culture grew group A strep and E. coli. 
Pt was also dx with a klebseilla UTI. 
Her antibiotics were changed to vancomycin , levofloxacin , and Flagyl. 
Her blood pressure improved and on the day of transfer to the floor on 3/9/06 , she was noted to be oliguric , presumably due ATN secondary to hypotension. 
Her urine output continued to drop and she developed a metabolic acidosis with a bicarbonate of 10. 
Her lactic acid at that point was 4.4. 
Her ABG was: 7. 9/23/98 and she was transferred back to the MICU. 
From a renal perspective , ARF was less likely to be post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis because of the timing of her strep infection. 
She had no hypertension or WBC casts. 
The UA was positive for hematuria. 
She had low complement levels , so there was some question of HUS after group B strep infection , although there were no schistocytes on her smear. 
The pt was aneuric on admission to the MICU and she started renal replacement therapy. 
Her urine output recovered and was greater than 800 mL daily while in the ICU. 
However , by the day of transfer to the floor on 4/30/06 , her urine output started to decrease and she started intermittent dialysis via a tunneled LIJ catheter. 
The renal team followed her closely and her meds were renally dosed. 
Her vancomycin was dosed by level. 
In terms of her hypertension , her blood pressure has normalized and her beta-blocker is being titrated upwards. 
From a cardiac perspective , the pt's troponin hit a high of 0.87 in the setting of septic shock. 
She was evaluated by MMC cardiology , and this was felt to be consistent with demand ischemia. 
She has actually been asymptomatic from a cardiac standpoint. 
She was continued on daily aspirin. 
Her LDL was 63 and a statin was started. 
She will actually need her fasting lipids checked once her acute illness has passed and her LDL goal is less than 70. 
The patient has a history of AFIB on Coumadin. 
Her INR goal is 2-3. 
Her INR is drifting down. 
She is off of Coumadin because she has several lines that needed to be pulled , including a right subclavian. 
The hemodialysis catheter will either be removed , if she has improved urine output , or a more permanent type of access will be placed. 
She will be on prophylactic heparin t.i.d. for DVT prophylaxis when her INR hits 1.5. 
From a hematologic perspective , the patient initially had thrombocytopenia on admission. 
There was some concern for DIC , as there was a very quick rise in her INR. 
Fibrinogen; however , was normal and the INR has since stabilized. 
She has persistent thrombocytopenia , although her platelet count is recovering. 
Her platelet factor 4 antibody was negative. 
There was no clear precipitant other than sepsis. 
She has a normocytic anemia with a large drop in hematocrit since admission and there was some concern for hemolysis with the rising bilirubin , low haptoglobin with multiple immature erythrocytes , but no schistocytes were seen on manual diff. 
She did require two units of packed red blood cells on this admission. 
Her hematocrit and platelets did drop on 2/27/06 as the steroids were being tapered off. 
Her direct Coombs was negative. 
Haptoglobin was within normal limits. 
Medications causing her thrombocytopenia like Seroquel and heparin were stopped. 
From a pulmonary standpoint , she is oxygenating and ventilating well and not requiring any supplemental O2. 
She started tube feeds on 11/9/06 with some marked hyperglycemia and also steroids for her hypotension contributing to her hyperglycemia. 
She was actually started on an IV insulin protocol in the ICU for better control and then was transitioned to NPH insulin plus regular insulin as well as a regular insulin sliding scale with good effect. 
Her home regimen was previously Lantus 25 units SC daily. 
Her TSH was within normal limits and she will continue levothyroxine. 
The patient developed a pain in her left fourth finger during this admission and the PIP joint was tapped on 2/27/06 by rheumatology. 
The appearance of the fluid was consistent with gout. 
She improved with steroids. 
Her right shoulder ultrasound showed a small effusion , which was unlikely to be infectious per radiology. 
She was started on Decadron 4 mg p.o. q.6h. 
, and only has mild , residual pain. 
From a GI perspective , pt's LFTs rose on 8/27/06 with peak ALT of 122 , T bili of 8.7 , and alkaline phosphatase of 196. 
She had a rising INR ( off of Coumadin ) consistent with hepatic injury and hepatocellular dysfunction. 
Her abdominal CT was unremarkable. 
GI was consulted. 
The etiology was unclear and the differential diagnosis was drug related liver injury versus infection or shock liver , and less likely , fatty liver disease. 
Her hepatitis serologies are negative and Tylenol has been held since 8/27/06 . 
Flagyl and clindamycin were discontinued on 11/9/06 , and her LFTs trended down. 
AMA was negative. 
ASMA was pending at the time of this dictation. 
From a neurologic point of view , the patient initially required Dilaudid PCA for pain with her legs. 
Now , she is comfortable on a fentanyl patch with Dilaudid boluses. 
Seroquel was started for sedation and that was actually stopped because of thrombocytopenia. 
From a dermatologic standpoint , she has had left lower extremity venostasis ulcers. 
She has a right lower extremity arterial insufficiency ulcer. 
She was seen by wound care. 
Vascular surgery requested that she have ABIs and assessment of her vascular flow once her acute illness has passed. 
For nutrition , the patient started tube feeds through an NG tube given her prolonged sedation. 
She will need to continue to improve her nutritional status. 
A speech and swallow evaluation was done on 10/27/07 and she has been approved for oral , soft diet. 
In terms of access , pt has a right subclavian left IJ hemodialysis catheter. 
She had a left radial artery line that was discontinued on 1/3/06 . 
The right subclavian will be removed when her INR is 1.5 and the hemodialysis catheter will either be removed or replaced with more permanent access depending on her urine output. 
For prophylaxis , she is on Nexium. 
She does not have pneumo boots on because of cellulitis and heparin was held with thrombocytopenia , now will be restarted on 10/27/07 or when her INR is 1.5 rather. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Diabetes mellitus type II on insulin , CAD status post CABG ( 1998 ). 
The right saphenous vein was harvested for surgery. 
Since that time , she has had baseline swelling and edema in the right lower extremity , CHF with diastolic dysfunction , EF 55% in July 2004 , dry weight is 150 pounds per the patient. 
Atrial fibrillation on Coumadin. 
Sick sinus syndrome , status post permanent pacemaker placement in October 2006 complicated by hemothorax requiring thoracoscopy. 
Chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 1.7 , gout , osteoarthritis , status post left total knee replacement in 1995 , status post right total knee replacement in 1990 , hypothyroid , osteoporosis , and chronic hearing loss. 
HOME MEDICATIONS: Lantus 25 units subcu q.a.m. , NovoLog sliding scale , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily , prednisone taper ( started 11/29/06 ) half tab daily x2 weeks , then half tab every other day x2 weeks , torsemide 20 mg 2-3 tabs p.o. daily depending on weight , metoprolol 12.5 p.o. b.i.d. 
Coumadin? 1 mg p.o. nightly , fentanyl 25 mcg per hour q.72h. 
, potassium , levothyroxine 75 mcg p.o. daily. 
ALLERGIES: Penicillin causes red welts. 
This is the only allergy that the patient endorses. 
Cephalosporin , unknown reaction. 
Question for quinolones , unknown reaction , but the patient have been taking levofloxacin and ciprofloxacin in the past without a problem. 
Sulfa and Bactrim , unknown reaction. 
Codeine unknown reaction. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her daughter and five grandchildren , ranging in age from 7 to the 20s. 
She is a former healthcare worker and a union organizer. 
At baseline , she uses a walker. 
She never smoked tobacco. 
She very rarely drinks alcohol and never used any drugs. 
She has a son with a history of diabetes. 
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 98.7 , heart rate 98 , blood pressure 171/85 , respiratory rate 19-23 , satting 97%-98% on 2 L ( this is the ICU admission from 3/9/06 ). 
In general , she was moaning in pain , slightly drowsy , but easily arouseable. 
Oriented to person , " Pagham University Of " , and " April ". 
Speaking in full sentences. 
ENT remarkable for slightly sluggishly reactive pupils bilaterally. 
Her oropharynx notable for dry mucous membranes. 
Neck was supple. 
Lungs were clear with decreased breath sounds at the bases bilaterally. 
Cardiovascular exam was tachycardic , regular with the distant S1 and S2. 
Her abdomen remarkable for normal bowel sounds , otherwise nontender and nondistended. 
Extremities , pain with movement of her upper extremities. 
She had baseline osteoarthritis in the shoulders , right greater than left. 
Right lower extremity had erythema , warmth and 2+ edema with exquisite tenderness 1 cm below the knee. 
The lateral distal lower extremity had 3 cm very dark black plaque near the biopsy site. 
She had a right foot that was cool with 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses. 
Left lower extremity with 2+ edema , 1+ dorsalis pedis pulse. 
Left hand , fourth and fifth digit MCP-PIP with erythema and warmth. 
Neurologic , cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact. 
Moving all extremities. 
Full strength exams precluded by pain. 
Her EKG showed V pacing. 
Chest x-ray on 8/7/06 showed cardiomegaly , a right IJ in place ( placed in the ED ) , no focal consolidation. 
No overt pulmonary edema or pneumothorax. 
CT of the right lower extremity showed cellulitis without gas. 
Echo in July 2004 , EF of 55% , no regional wall motion abnormalities. 
RV was dilated with normal function. 
She had diastolic septal flattening consistent with RV volume overload by atrial enlargement , mild-to-moderate MR , PAP , 17+ RA. LABORATORY DATA: Remarkable for bicarbonate 21 , BUN 49 , creatinine 1.6 ( baseline 1.7 ) , glucose of 204 , magnesium 1.3 , lactic acid was 6.5 going to 6.2 , T bili was 1.5 , AST 45. 
INR 1.4. 
Hematocrit 43.2 , platelets of 156 , 000 , white count of 9.8 with 84% neutrophils , 14% bands , 1 lymph , 1 mono. 
Cardiac enzymes were positive at 9 p.m. on 3/9/06 with the troponin of 0.26. 
MICROBIOLOGY DATA: Blood culture on 8/7/06 positive for beta hemolytic group A strep. Urine on 8/7/06 , greater than 100 , 000 klebsiella ( pansensitive ). 
Blood cultures on 11/22/06 positive for beta hemolytic group A strep. Blood cultures 3/9/06 , no growth. 
Joint fluid on 6/7/06 from the right knee , no growth , rare polys , no organisms seen on Gram stain. 
Blood cultures from 1/4/06 , 12 , and 11/6/06 , all no growth to date at the time of this dictation. 
Stool culture negative for C. diff. 
Left fourth finger fluid negative for organisms on Gram stain or culture on 2/27/06 . 
Sputum culture on 9/14/07 , 1+ suspected oral flora. 
Chest x-ray on 9/14/07 , hazy opacification within the left lower hemithorax due to atelectasis , unchanged from 6/10/06 . 
Right lower extremity fascial biopsy on 8/7/06 , dense fibroconnective tissue , no acute inflammation present. 
IMPRESSION: Ms. Flow is an 83-year-old woman with multiple medical problems presenting with hypotension likely secondary to sepsis from her right lower extremity cellulitis and a klebsiella UTI. 
PLAN: 1. ID: The patient had group A strep bacteremia likely due to cellulitis. 
She was treated empirically with vancomycin x6 weeks. 
Day one was 11/22/06 . 
Vancomycin was being dosed bilevel as the patient was requiring hemodialysis and had decreased urine output. 
Echocardiogram was unremarkable for vegetations. 
Second echo was pending on 10/27/07 at the time of this dictation to rule out any kind of vegetation. 
She did have some spots on her toes that looked like possible Janeway lesions. 
Klebsiella UTI was treated with levofloxacin. 
2. Renal: The patient is oliguric acute renal failure on chronic with question of either a result of sepsis and vasodilatation and hypotension versus a true ATN. 
She has been requiring hemodialysis. 
Last dialysis was 10/27/07 . 
Urine output and improving. 
The patient may have a permanent tunneled catheter placed depending on how her urine output recovers. 
We will use Lasix p.r.n. to manage volume. 
3. Cardiovascular: The patient had demand ischemia with a peak troponin of 0.87 with septic. 
Her LDL was 63 and a statin was started. 
She will continue her aspirin and beta-blocker. 
We will recheck her fasting lipids when the acute illness has resolved as an outpatient. 
The patient now has normal blood pressure with titrating her beta-blocker up and considering adding a second agent to normalize her hypotension. 
We are avoiding Ace inhibitors because of her acute renal failure. 
She has AFIB , sick sinus syndrome. 
She is on Coumadin as an outpatient , has a permanent pacemaker. 
We are holding her Coumadin for now and this can be resumed once decision has been made about hemodialysis access. 
She had an elevated INR in the ICU , presumably due to shock liver , as her other LFTs are also increased simultaneously. 
4. Endocrine: The patient has diabetes mellitus. 
She has elevated blood sugars on tube feeds and steroids. 
We are titrating up her insulin. 
Her home regimen is Lantus. the tube feeds were discontinued on 10/27/07 as the patient was cleared to eat a diabetic diet and we will transition her insulin accordingly. 
She is hypothyroid and we should continue her home Levoxyl. 5. Rheumatology: The patient had a gout flare in her left hand , right shoulder , and right knee. 
Taps were consistent with gout. 
The cultures were no growth to date. 
She is on a dexamethasone taper , however decreasing to 1 mg IV q.12h. 
on 7/9/07 per rheumatology. 
6. Heme: The patient had persistently low platelets and anemia. 
Initially , it was a concern for DIC , but the fibrinogen was normal. 
There was some concern for hemolysis. 
Her hematocrit and platelets dropped in the setting of tapering her steroids and she actually did require two units of packed red cells on 2/27/06 . 
Her dexamethasone was then increased. 
In response to that , heparin was stopped. 
Her platelet factor IV antibody is negative. 
We will continue to follow her counts as we taper the steroids. 
It could be possible that the changes in her hematocrit and platelets are due to sepsis. 
7. GI on 8/27/06 , she developed elevated LFTs. 
We continued to follow the trend of her LFTs and they have decreasing at the time of this dictation. 
8. Neurology: The patient has severe pain from gout. 
She is on a Dilaudid PCA initially , now is on her home fentanyl patch with Dilaudid boluses p.r.n. 9. Dermatology: The patient has a history of venostasis ulcers and right arterial lower extremity insufficiency. 
She was seen by wound care and vascular surgery , were continued to follow their recommendations and when she is an outpatient , she should have ABIs. 
She could not have an MRI to study flow to those legs as she has a pacemaker. 
10. 
FEN: The patient is on a mechanical soft diet with thin liquids on 10/27/07 . 
Nutrition is following. 
11. 
Prophylaxis: The patient will need DVT prophylaxis when INR hits 1.5. 
She is on a PPI while she is on steroids. 
DISPOSITION: Rehabilitation. 
She has a right subclavian line that should be removed prior to discharge , and a decision about the hemodialysis catheter should be made. 
Her healthcare proxy is her daughter , Beierschmitt , her cell number 893-303-8108 , home number is 356-871-0612. 
CODE: DNR/DNI. 
CONTINUED CARE PLAN: 1. Follow up the results of all cultures to resolution. 
2. Remove right subclavian line. 
3. Make a decision about whether or not the patient will need intermittent hemodialysis and if so , through what access. 4. Resume Coumadin once that access has been placed or once all lines have been removed. 
5. Recheck lipids as an outpatient. 
6. ABIs for both legs and followup of chronic , non-healing wound. 
7. Continue vancomycin. 
eScription document: 4-3005822 CSSten Tel Dictated By: LAVERGNE , TAMEIKA Attending: NAKAI , RHEBA Dictation ID 9945944 D: 10/27/07 T: 7/9/07