816576315 | PUO | 22240846 | | 3141750 | 2/23/2005 12:00:00 AM | RESPIRATORY DISTRESS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/3/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/6/2005 ATTENDING: FERNANDE RANDY PREWER MD Of note , the patient was admitted to the CCU and then transferred over to the Heart Failure Service mid admission. 
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Respiratory distress. 
OTHER DIAGNOSES: CHF , hypertension , bronchospastic asthma , nonischemic cardiomyopathy , and pulmonary hypertension. 
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: A 63-year-old female with hypertension , asthma with baseline PAF , peak flows of 150 to 175 , and history of previous nonischemic cardiomyopathy with most recent EF of 55% on 4/11/04 as well as pulmonary hypertension with the pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 96 mmHg , who was in her usual state of health until three or four days prior to admission when she developed cough and symptoms of an upper respiratory infection. 
She had no reported fevers or chills. 
On the day of admission , the patient was at her friend's house. 
When she became acutely short of breath , EMS was called and per report , the patient was in a tripod position , sweaty , and felt to be in respiratory distress. 
In the ED , she was given 80 mg IVF Lasix , several nebulizer treatments , and actually that was done in field. 
Shortly after arrival to the ED , the patient appeared to be in worsening distress and she desaturated in terms of her oxygen saturation to the 70% to 80%. 
She was urgently intubated and at the time of intubation , there were significant amount of secretions/emesis in the secretions. 
She was given 120 mg IVF Lasix. 
Chest x-ray at that time showed an infiltrate on the left consistent with pulmonary congestion. 
Her BNP on admission was 591 , up from 204 on 4/11/04 . 
The notable labs were CK of 115 and MB fraction of 2.8 , a troponin of 0.62 , and a white blood cell count of 11.7. 
Her ABG post intubation was 7.4/54/453 . 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As above. 
Hypertension , asthma , tobacco use , nonischemic cardiomyopathy , and pulmonary hypertension. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Albuterol , atorvastatin , aspirin 325 mg , Flovent b.i.d. , potassium 20 mEq t.i.d. , Lasix 200 mg b.i.d. , lisinopril 40 mg q.d. , magnesium oxide , multivitamins , Norvasc 10 mg q.d. , Serevent two puffs b.i.d. , and Valium. 
ALLERGIES: Metoprolol to which she gets bronchospasm. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She presently smokes cigarettes approximately half a pack to one pack per day x 30 years , unknown whether she drinks alcohol. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ARRIVAL: Temperature of 100.1 , she had a heart rate of 53 in sinus , blood pressure 150/90 , and initial vent settings included assist control with a tidal volume of 500 , breathing at 12 with an FIO2 of 100% , 93%. 
Exam notable for a JVP of 8 and 9 , reactive pupils , diffuse expiratory wheezes on pulmonary exam , irregular tachycardia , S1 , S2 , 3/6 holosystolic murmur at the left upper sternal border , soft abdomen with positive bowel sounds , warm extremities , 1+ pitting edema , and notable labs were as above. 
Her CCU course can be summarized by the following: 1. Cardiovascular: In terms of her pump , she as noted had pulmonary congestion on chest x-ray and during her CCU stay , diuresed approximately 4.7 liters and her weight went down 6 kg. 
On transfer to the floor of Cardiology Heart Failure Service , she still appeared somewhat volume overloaded to despite 100 mg IV Lasix q. day. 
In terms of her rate , she was normal. 
On transfer from the CCU , she had normal sinus rhythm with occasional signs of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , which was thought possibly due to her pulmonary process. 
In terms of her ischemia , she had some troponin leak , it was thought to be in the setting of CHF , but that was trending downward and her blood pressure was difficult to control likely due to medical noncompliance , longstanding hypertension at home. 
She was on captopril , hydralazine , and amlodipine. 
2. In terms o her pulmonary status , there was a question of a left infiltrate on her chest x-ray , so she was started on levofloxacin and she was continued to be treated with Solu-Medrol IV with switching to prednisone 60 mg p.o. Her ABG showed mild retention that would be expected in the setting and we continued levalbuterol nebulizers q.4h. 
as well as Atrovent nebulizers q.4h. 
and did not start a steroid taper. 
She was transferred from the CCU to the floor on the ACE , October 2005 , after five-day stay in the CCU. 
Briefly , summarized her floor course by the following problems: 1. Cardiovascular: In terms of her pump , she was continued to be diuresed down to what was thought to be a goal dry weight between 82 and 84 kg. 
We were able to accomplish this diuresis with Lasix 120 mg b.i.d. p.o. and did not need to initiate any form of drips. 
We attempted to diurese her down to euvolemic weight of approximately 84 kg on discharge. 
Rhythm: On the 30 of August of October , she developed atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular rate into the 130s and was placed on the diltiazem IV drip titrated up to a heart rate below 100 , maximal rate reached 140 to 150. 
We switched to diltiazem drip over to diltiazem p.o. t.i.d. up to a dose of eventually 150 mg b.i.d. that was then sequentially brought down later during the admission. 
We also started digoxin p.o. and started heparin for anticoagulation. 
It was at that time decided that electrical cardioversion would not be optimal in her stay , so it was decided that she would be chemically cardioverted using the drug dofetilide. 
Otherwise , Tikosyn and we initiated the doses of dofetilide on February , 2005 , first with the loading dose of 250 mcg and then with 500 mcg b.i.d.. 
She was watched carefully with EKGs before every dose of dofetilide because of the risk of torsade de pointes and we kept her magnesium well repleted. 
She tolerated the chemical cardioversion and went back into mostly sinus rhythm without too much ectopy or signs of any other arrhythmia , then we were able to decrease her diltiazem down to 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
Ischemia: She had small troponin leaks that eventually resolved , thought to be due to failure. 
In terms of her cardiovascular status , a right heart cath was done on the March , 2004 , which showed the following pressures: RA pressures of 10 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressures of 12 , and pulmonary artery pressures of 60 with cardiac output of 6. Swan-Ganz catheter readings also showed similar pressure suggesting that the causes of her respiratory distress were more respiratory disease in nature as opposed to CHF heart failure nature. 
We , of course , continued gentle diuresis but proceeded to aggressively manage her respiratory disease. 
Blood pressure: She was maintained on a regimen and eventually discharged in regimen of hydralazine 100 mg t.i.d. , Isordil 40 mg t.i.d. , diltiazem 60 mg t.i.d. , and lisinopril 20 mg q.d. 
As her blood pressures had been hard to control , she left here with blood pressures in the ranges of 120 to 150s/40s to 70s. 2. Pulmonary wise , her respiratory distress seem to be more due to her significant component of bronchospasm and slowly improved throughout the course of admission. 
We did not begin the taper of her prednisone until after she was discharged. 
She was discharged on 60 mg p.o. q.d. of prednisone and we will begin to taper after four days to 50 mg q.p.m. 
p.o. q.d. and then after four days of that to 40 mg p.o. q.d. , after which the Pulmonology Service will then determine whether she needs further tapering and how fast to do it. 
She is also continued on Flovent 220 mcg four puffs b.i.d. as well as Advair 500/50 mcg b.i.d. inhalers in addition to her Atrovent inhalers in the morning five puffs. 
She will be arranged for followup in the Pulmonary Clinic , 337-8573 , for management of her asthma , COPD , and pulmonary hypertension. 
The pulmonary fellow input was greatly appreciated. 
3. Heme: She was started on heparin because of the risk of clot formation during her atrial fibrillation with RVR and then transitioned to Coumadin with a dose of 5 mg of Coumadin. 
Should be followed up in the Coumadin Clinic at KTDUOO ( Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of ) who will draw her INR first starting on the 16 of October of October when she has an appointment with her PCP. 
Her renal issues are creatinine , were initially bumped to 1.9 , but came down steadily to a discharge level of 1.5. 
She had good urine output and no other major electrolyte abnormalities after her initial low sodiums. 
She did have persistently elevated bicarbonate levels as would be expected. 
Her white count was somewhat high , but she was on steroids and was not thought to be infected. 
She was visited often by many family members and the following follow-up appointments were made in terms of her disposition: She has an appointment with Dr. Sun Leason , her primary care physician at KTDUOO on January , 2005. 
She has an appointment with her primary cardiologist , Dr. Mathew Stautz on September , 2005. 
She has an appointment with the Electrophysiology Service to follow up on her arrhythmia issues on January , 2005 , and she will be making an appointment with the Pulmonology Service and to followup in a few weeks for her bronchospastic issues. 
She also has visiting nurses' support setup for her as well as connection with the Coumadin Clinic at KTDUOO .  
She was discharged in a stable condition on July , 2005 with followup. 
Her exam was essentially improved respiratory wise and unchanged cardiac wise. 
She felt ready to leave. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Albuterol inhaler two puffs q.4h. 
, Atrovent inhalers two puffs four times a day , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.p.m. , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d. , diltiazem 60 mg p.o. t.i.d. , enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Flovent 220 mcg inhaled b.i.d. , hydralazine 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Isordil 40 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lasix 120 mg p.o. b.i.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , prednisone 60 mg p.o. q.a.m. , and simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. 
In terms of disposition , she again needs Pulmonary followup and appointment , which the fellow said that she will be called form the Agard Tomw. 
Medical Center .  
eScription document: 9-9264061 ISSten Tel Dictated By: PHILLEY , DORINDA Attending: PREWER , FERNANDE RANDY Dictation ID 8208534 D: 9/15/05 T: 9/15/05