709261733 | PUO | 68543607 | | 8064709 | 4/18/2005 12:00:00 AM | ANEMIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/18/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 7/6/2005 ATTENDING: SCOVEL , DULCIE MD ADMISSION DIAGNOSES: Panhypopituitarism , easy bruising , altered mental status , and lower extremity edema/rash. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 27-year-old female with a history of craniopharyngioma , status post resection and XRT 11 years ago complicated by panhypopituitarism and cognitive impairment. 
At baseline , the patient has difficulty staying fully awake , difficulties with reading and writing , and short-term memory deficits. 
She also reports easy bruising and recent nose bleeds that were treated with packing of the nose. 
She has had bruising in the arms and feet for about two weeks. 
She also reported dyspnea on exertion for about 10 days with some lightheadedness with standing , and an increase in her lower extremity edema. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Otherwise negative. 
She denied cough , fevers , chills , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , PND , orthopnea , or URI symptoms. 
Her mental status at this point appeared to be at baseline. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Craniopharyngioma , status post resection and XRT. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Ritalin-SR 20 mg p.o. daily. 
2. Levoxyl 274 mcg p.o. daily. 
The patient reports that this is on hold. 
3. Aviane ( OCP ) 1 tablet p.o. daily. 
4. Cortef 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. 5. DDAVP 0.2 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 0.4 mg p.o. q.h.s. 6. Multivitamin. 
7. Melatonin. 
8. CPAP. 
9. No Doz p.r.n. 10. 
Provigil 600 mg p.o. q.a.m. 
11. 
Humatrope 40 units q.p.m. 
The patient reports that this too was on hold. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient denies tobacco and alcohol use. 
She is a graduate student who lives with her mother. 
Of note , her last MRI was in October 2005 that showed a partially empty sella , otherwise negative. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital Signs: Temperature 96 , pulse 18 , blood pressure 110/76 , respiratory rate normal , and O2 saturation 99% on room air. 
General Appearance: Morbidly obese female , sleepy , arousable , in no acute distress. 
HEENT: Anicteric sclerae , oropharynx was clear. 
Pupils were equally round and reactive. 
Extraocular movement intact. 
Neck: Supple. 
Obese. 
Chest: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
CVS: Regular rhythm and bradycardiac. 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
Abdomen: Benign. 
Extremities: No cyanosis or clubbing , 1+ pitting edema to the ankles with some erythematous skin ( baseline ). 
LABS AND DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: 1. Chem-7: Notable for a creatinine of 0.9 , BUN of 28 , and bicarbonate of 30. 2. CBC: Notable for white blood count of 2.15 , hematocrit 29 , and platelets 64. 3. Coagulations: PT 14 , PTT 56 , and INR 1.1. 
4. UA: Showed 1-3 white blood cells with 10-15 casts. 
UHCG was negative. 5. EKG: Showed sinus bradycardia at a rate of 52 beats per minute with first-degree AV and nonspecific ST-T wave changes. 
6. Chest x-ray: Showed no infiltrate or effusion. 
INITIAL ASSESSMENT AND BRIEF SUMMARY: This is a 27-year-old female with a history of craniopharyngioma , status post resection and XRT in 1993 with subsequent panhypopituitarism and chronic sleepiness. 
She was admitted to the General Medical Service on 1/1/05 with a two-week history of a.m. 
confusion , visual changes , ataxia , tinnitus , bilateral lower extremity edema , and shortness of breath. 
She had also had easy bruising and a severe episode of epistaxis requiring cauterization. 
Her blood work was notable for pancytopenia. 
She then had swelling of her hands and arms as well as a rash. 
MRI in 2/17 showed no change or evidence of tumor recurrence. 
The patient , while on the General Medical Service , had an extensive rheumatologic , neurologic , and hematologic workup , at which point she underwent both bone marrow biopsy and unsuccessful LP under IV conscious sedation. 
The patient became unresponsive and hypothermic about 2 hours after her bone marrow biopsy and was therefore transferred to the MICU on 10/6/05 for closer observation. 
She seemed encephalopathic during this stay and was started empirically on ampicillin , cefoxitin , and acyclovir. 
She was then sent for a CT-guided lumbar puncture requiring intubation. 
She was extubated on 4/18/05 . 
She was then transferred out to the floor where she continued to improve. 
Hospital course in more detail by system below. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. 
The patient has a history of obstructive sleep apnea and uses CPAP at home. 
Her outpatient pulmonologist at the Poguary Medical Center was contacted who confirmed this. 
On admission , she had a normal O2 saturation with a relatively clear chest x-ray. 
However , she became hypothermic and unresponsive following her bone marrow biopsy. 
She also required intubation for CT-guided lumbar puncture for airway protection in the setting of her excessive sedation. 
She was extubated on 4/18/05 and her oxygen was quickly weaned off. 
Since then she has been oxygenating and ventilating well on room air. 
CPAP was continued at night. 
She has had no other pulmonary complications. 
2. CVS. 
The patient has no history of cardiac disease. 
An echocardiogram done on 6/1/05 showed normal LV function with preserved ejection fraction , no wall motion abnormalities , moderate tricuspid regurgitation , and mild mitral regurgitation. 
In terms of her rhythm , the patient has a resting bradycardia in the 30s to 40s that is thought to be secondary to increased vagal tone and has no hemodynamic consequence. 
She received atropine while in the ICU at 1 mg x 1 on two separate occasions; in the first instance for bradycardia to a heart rate of 19 in the setting of getting vasoconstrictors for a low blood pressure and the second time when she had a heart rate down to 30. 
After the patient was transferred out to the floor , we did obtain a dedicated EP Service Cardiology consult , who evaluated the patient. 
They confirmed that her bradycardia is most likely due to vagal tone. 
She responds appropriately with an increase in her heart rate with exertion. 
In this young woman , it was deemed that a pacemaker would not be an appropriate choice. 
She did have 3-4 second pauses on one occasion on the floor but had no recurrence throughout the rest of her stay. 
If after discharge she develops further pauses or a syncopal episode , this issue can be revisited. 
While she was in house , we did keep atropine and Zoll pads at the bedside but did not have to use it once she was transferred out of the ICU. 
In terms of ischemia , the patient had a slightly elevated CK-MB on admission , but she has had a normal echocardiogram and negative troponin since. 
3. Renal. 
The patient developed acute renal failure during the early part of her stay thought secondary to acyclovir , which had been given for presumptive meningitis. 
Her abdominal ultrasound was negative and urine eosinophils were also negative. 
Her creatinine improved with appropriate hydration and was normal at the time of discharge ( creatinine equal to 1.0 ). 4. The patient does have a history of hypernatremia. 
Initially , her home DDAVP was held for fear that it would be difficult to diurese her if she became volume overloaded given her somewhat elevated creatinine. 
However , her sodium continued to increase to 155 despite getting free water repletion , so her DDAVP was restarted on 10/5/05 . 
She was discharged on her home dose of DDAVP of 0.2 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 0.4 mg p.o. q.p.m. with one nasal spray q.h.s. 
Her sodium at the time of discharge was 145. 
She has been followed by the Endocrine Service in house for this. 
They have recommended that she not increase her home dose , instead she will aggressively increase her p.o. water intake in order to maintain her normal sodium. 
She will follow up in two weeks with Dr. Firestein of Endocrine who will recheck her electrolytes at that time. 5. Derm/Rheumatology. 
The patient was evaluated by both of these services during her stay. 
She had biopsies done of several locations that showed nonspecific pathology consistent with mixed connective tissue disease. 
However , her serologies have , for the most part , been negative. 
She was treated presumptively with stress-dose and eventually pulse steroids. 
These were tapered towards her stay. 
She will be discharged on a quick taper of hydrocortisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. for two days , after which she will revert to her home dose of 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 10 mg p.o. q.p.m. 6. Endocrine. 
The patient has panhypopituitarism and was followed by the Endocrine Service throughout her stay. 
In terms of her thyroid function , the patient was continued on her home dose of Levoxyl. 
It was difficult to interpret her TSH in the setting of panhypopituitarism; therefore we followed her T4 , T3 , and free T4 levels. 
These were rechecked towards the end of her stay once she had recovered from her acute illness and in light of a slightly decreased free T4 level , her Levoxyl was increased to 275 mcg p.o. daily at the time of discharge. 
7. Diabetes insipidus. 
The patient's hypernatremia was corrected with D5 water and increasing her p.o. fluid intake. 
She was also put back on her home dose of DDAVP. 
8. Growth hormone. 
There was no indication for growth hormone replacement. 
9. Adrenal insufficiency. 
The patient completed a course of stress dose steroids for her procedures and then got pulse steroids per wound for a question of lupus versus mixed connective tissue disorder. 
However , this was tapered over her stay and she will be discharged on a very brief taper. 
She will go back to her home regimen of hydrocortisone. 
10. 
Gonadotropins. 
The patient was continued on Aviane ( OCP ) during her stay. 
11. 
Neurologic. 
The patient had no clear etiology for her hypersomnolence. 
She was followed by the Neurologic Service in house. 
She does not appear to be hypercarbic or hypoxic. 
Her infectious workup was entirely negative and she was therefore taken off antibiotics. 
Her EEG showed nonspecific diffuse slowing with no seizure foci. 
The default diagnosis has been that some of her symptoms , including her altered mental status , lower extremity edema , rash , and perhaps even pancytopenia , may be secondary to Provigil. 
This was therefore discontinued and she should not start this once she returns home. 
Initially , her stimulants were held for fear that they were contributing to her pancytopenia. 
However , her Ritalin was restarted once her counts started to recover. 
She was discharged on Ritalin-SR 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
Her mental status seemed to improve on this regimen. 
At the time of discharge , she was awake , alert , able to converse well , and at her baseline. 
12. Hematologic. 
The patient presented with pancytopenia , again of unclear etiology. 
Bone marrow biopsy was negative for leukemia , lymphoma , and myelodysplasia. 
Rather , it was consistent with a viral effect or drug effect. 
Her counts had resolved by the time of discharge with a white blood count equal to 9.26 , hematocrit of 27.6 , and platelets of 266. 
This too may have been due to Provigil effect. 
13. 
Prophylaxis. 
The patient was maintained on Pepcid for GI prophylaxis and heparin for DVT prophylaxis. 
14. 
Code. 
Full. 15. 
ID. 
The patient had multiple blood , urine cultures , and CSF cultures sent. 
These were all negative. 
Of note , stool culture was positive for C. difficile. 
She was therefore started on p.o. Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. on 9/20/05 . 
She will complete a 14-day course of this antibiotic. 
DISPOSITION: Home with VNA services. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Satisfactory. 
COMPLICATIONS DURING THIS HOSPITAL STAY: None. 
TO DO/FOLLOWUP PLAN: 1. 
The patient should follow up with her PCP in 1-2 weeks. 
2. The patient should follow up with Dr. Firestein in the Endocrine Department in 2-4 weeks. 
She can be reached at 250-895-0491. 
3. The patient should aggressively increase her oral water intake in order to keep her sodium within normal limits. 
4. The patient should call her doctor if she has any changes in her mental status or if she develops nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , rash , shortness of breath , lightheadedness , or any other worrisome symptoms. 
5. Of note , the patient's biopsy sutures on her left abdomen and right forearm were removed on the day of discharge. 
These areas appear to have healed well. 
Her central line was also removed on 3/9/05 without complications. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. 2. Hydrocortisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. x 4 doses starting in the a.m. of 9/10/05 . 
3. Hydrocortisone 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 10 mg p.o. q.p.m. starting on 1/12/05 ( p.m. dose to be given at 4 p.m. ) 4. Levoxyl 275 mcg p.o. daily. 
5. Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x 13 days. 
6. Multivitamin 1 tablet p.o. daily. 
7. DDAVP 0.2 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 0.4 mg p.o. q.p.m. 8. DDAVP nasal spray , 1 spray q.h.s. 9. Ritalin-SR 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. 10. 
Aviane 1 tablet p.o. daily. 
11. 
Miconazole nitrate 2% topical powder applied to affected areas b.i.d. eScription document: 0-8974400 IS Dictated By: CHAIX , TRISH Attending: SCOVEL , DULCIE Dictation ID 1753860 D: 3/1/05 T: 9/13/05