516422342 | PUO | 68996694 | | 0467704 | 7/5/2005 12:00:00 AM | LEFT HIP INFECTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/29/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 4/5/2005 ATTENDING: RUFUS BERNAS MD PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Left hip infection. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 60-year-old female who sustained a mechanical fall out of bed on 11/8/04 and suffered a left subtrochanteric fracture for which she underwent left intramedullary nailing at Pagham University Of by Dr. Verna Eckloff . 
Some weeks later , she returned with a left hip infection with drainage noted from her wound. 
An irrigation and debridement was performed at an outside hospital where concern for sepsis had developed in the context of hypotension. 
Cultures from this procedure grew out Methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus. 
She was transferred to the Pagham University Of for further management; and on 5/29/05 , another irrigation and debridement was performed by Dr. Eckloff . 
Vancomycin and rifampin were begun at this time. 
She was discharged to rehabilitation , had convalesced , and returned home. 
Not four days later , she was found on follow up to have continued drainage from the wound and increased pain in her left hip. 
She was admitted for treatment of continued left hip infection. 
The patient arrived with a PICC line in place on vancomycin for MRSA infection. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Morbid obesity. 
2. Polymyositis. 
3. Fibromyalgia. 
4. Asthma. 5. GERD. 
6. Hypertension. 
7. Osteoarthritis. 
8. Depression. 
MEDICATIONS: 1. Vancomycin 1000 mg IV q.24h. 
2. Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneous daily. 
3. Prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily. 
4. Lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. 5. Amitriptyline 100 mg p.o. q.h.s. 6. DuoNeb q.6h. 
p.r.n. wheeze. 
7. Prozac 40 mg p.o. daily. 
8. Prednisone 7.5 mg p.o. daily. 
9. Benadryl p.r.n. 10. 
Vicodin p.r.n. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION: Afebrile , heart rate stable , serosanguineous drainage from left hip wound , range of motion decreased secondary to pain. 
Left lower extremity warm and well perfused. 
Sensation intact to light touch in all distributions. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitting from clinic for further evaluation and management of the suspected left hip infection. 
A CT scan was performed which revealed a 12 cm x 7 cm x 4.5 cm fluid collection lateral to the hip extending into the surrounding soft tissues with question of contiguity with the nail/intramedullary space. 
Given the patient's history with general anesthesia including desaturations and difficulty with ventilation experienced on irrigation and debridement in April 2004 management aims were directed towards the conservative if at all possible. 
CFH Radiology was consulted for potential IR drainage of the collection and anesthesiology was consulted of her previous events under sedation. 
On 3/3/05 , the patient underwent a CT-guided drainage of fluid collection with placement of a drainage catheter. 
A 10 cc of pus was immediately aspirated upon introduction of the guiding needle. 
A gram stain revealed 4+ PMNs and no growth on aerobic or anaerobic cultures. 
Blood cultures drawn the following day also showed no growth. 
The Infectious Disease Service continued to follow the patient in house with recommendations to continue vancomycin without rifampin that had been suggested upon previous discharge and despite her itchiness with infusions since no other signs of symptoms of allergic or anaphylactic reaction had occurred. 
Her vancomycin regimen was changed to 1000 mg IV q.12h. 
and slightly higher trough levels were tolerated by the ID Service due to the patient's renal function and the persistence of the patient's infection. 
Continued monitoring of vancomycin levels were therefore not recommended. 
Due to continued drainage from the catheterized wound , the decision was made for treatment of the hip by a multistage procedure , in which the hardware would be removed and antibiotics spacer placed temporarily while longterm IV antibiotic treatment was pursued for at least six weeks and finally the hip replaced with total arthroplasty , once evidence suggested that infection had been cleared. 
On 11/29/05 , the patient underwent removal of the intramedullary nail , Girdlestone procedure , and placement of antibiotic beads. 
Please see the operative note for further details. 
The procedure proceeded without complication including any anesthetic events as had occurred in the past. 
She was transfused 2 units of packed red blood cells due to a postoperative hematocrit of 24 experiencing an appropriate rise following transfusion. 
Gram stain from intramedullary reamings showed 2+ polys with no organisms and cultures revealed no growth. 
She described minimal pain and was able to weightbear as tolerated on the left lower extremity without difficulty. 
A urinary tract infection was found on preoperative evaluation for the second stage operation and she was treated with a seven-day course of levofloxacin. 
On 4/23/05 , the patient returned to the OR for removal of antibiotic beads and placement of an antibiotic spacer , please see the operative note for further details. 
This too proceeded without intraoperative complications , however , postoperatively , it was found that the spacer head was slightly dislocated. 
This was tolerated and the patient was allowed to weightbear. 
She did this minimally secondary to increased pain. 
She was also again transfused with 2 units of packed red blood cells due to a hematocrit of 24 with an appropriate rise in her hematocrit falling. 
Given the increased pain , the obvious shortening of the leg with external rotation and without neurovascular compromise the patient was counseled that operative exploration and replacement of the spacer would be recommended. 
While the patient did understand the need for this , she became more depressed at the prospect of what described a "set back." 
Psychiatry was consulted for support and potential change in medications if they deemed fit. 
They did not recommend any changes in her current antidepressant regimen but did suggest continued support by social work. 
This was indeed the case. 
By 10/3/05 , the patient was at the peace with the decision for further surgery and she returned to the OR. Please see the operative note for further details. 
The patient underwent a left antibiotic space replacement with fusion of the head in the socket. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well. 
Her postoperative course was unremarkable. 
She did complain of some pain with movement of her left hip but this was to be expected given the fusion of the spacer head with the socket and this pain did improve with time. 
She also noted some difficulty with ambulation given her shorter left leg , a left leg lift was therefore provided to her. 
By the time of discharge , she was voiding , tolerating regular diet , and ambulating with assistance. 
Physical therapy did work with her for weightbearing as tolerated on the left lower extremity with posterior precautions. 
She was discharged in stable condition to a rehabilitation facility for further subacute care and with instructions to continue IV vancomycin for another six weeks ( starting date 9/15/05 ). 
She was also instructed to follow up with Dr. Ibey in one to two weeks. 
The patient will followed by the Infectious Disease Service when she returns in house and the service is reconsulted at that time. 
The patient arrived on the prednisone taper which was eventually discontinued per patient wishes and agreement with her rheumatologist , her last dose was on 7/30/05 and she will not continue with prednisone thereafter. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Please follow electrolytes and vancomycin trough level at least twice weekly. 
2. The patient may shower with assistance , keep incision clean and dry with dry gauze dressings , changed daily. 
3. Continue vancomycin for a six-week course starting on 9/15/05 . 
A trough up to 30 should be tolerated , please hold for a creatinine of greater than 1.3 , adjust and hold according to renal function. 
4. Physical therapy , weightbearing as tolerated on the left lower extremity , leg lift posterior precautions. 
Follow up with Dr. Ibey of Orthopedic Surgery in one to two weeks. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Amitriptyline 100 mg p.o. q.h.s. 2. Valium 1 mg p.o. q.8h. 
p.r.n. muscle spasm. 
3. Benadryl 25 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. itching. 
4. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation. 
5. Prozac 40 mg p.o. daily. 
6. Lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. 7. Nubain 10 mg IV q.6h. 
p.r.n. itching. 
8. Oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
9. Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneus daily. 
10. 
Esomeprazole 40 mg p.o. daily. 
11. 
DuoNeb 3/0.5 mg nebulizer q.6h. 
p.r.n. wheeze or shortness of breath. 
12. Vancomycin 1000 mg IV q.12h. 
premedicated with Benadryl for itching. 
Tolerate trough up to 30 hold for creatinine greater than 1.3. 
eScription document: 4-4927050 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: BREINES , AZALEE Attending: BERNAS , RUFUS Dictation ID 4300908 D: 7/30/05 T: 7/30/05