745179229 | PUO | 17981485 | | 977705 | 2/29/1990 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 2/29/1990 Report Status: Unsigned 

Discharge Date: 10/18/1990 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: 1 )MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION. 2 )CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE. 3 )HYPERTENSION. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This patient is a 60-year-old white male who presented with a two week history of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and dyspnea on exertion admitted with new EKG changes consistent with myocardial infarction for rule out MI. The patient's cardiac risk factors are diabetes , hypertension , distant smoking history. 
There is no history of increased cholesterol and no family history of heart disease. 
The patient noted the onset of exertional shortness of breath around the beginning of 10 of October .  
At that time the patient was experiencing increased stress because of the recent death of the patient's sister-in-law. 
The patient consulted his local physician , Dr. Cole Emanuelson , on 14 of October .  
An EKG at that time showed no change from an EKG of a year earlier. 
Over the next week the patient reported feeling weak , general malaise , experienced occasional chills with continuing dyspnea on exertion. 
There was one event on 7 of July where the patient experienced chest pain with severe diaphoresis and a chill which he attributed to the flu although the patient did not seek medical attention at that time. 
Over the last 10 to 14 days prior to admission the patient noted increasing exertional dyspnea , three episodes of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea associated with right chest discomfort. 
There was no nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , cyanosis. 
The patient also noted edema in his lower extremities over the last two weeks. 
The last episode of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea was this past weekend. 
On the day of admission the patient saw Dr. Pidro once again and EKG demonstrated marked anterolateral changes that were new since the EKG taken on 14 of October .  
The patient presented to the Pagham University Of Emergency Ward. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension of approximately 10 years , non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus of approximately 12 years , left Bell's palsy in 1985 treated with prednisone , type IV hypolipoproteinemia. 
The patient was also admitted for right face and arm pain at the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of in 21 of April .  
This was attributed to TIA. Carotid non-invasives at that time along with a head CT were reportedly negative. 
The patient also had a right cranial nerve III palsy in 30 of August .  
MEDICATIONS: Micronase 10 mg po bid , Persantine 60 mg po tid , aspirin one po q d , Lisinopril 5 mg po q d , and Atenolol 50 mg po q d. ALLERGIES: None known. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: There is approximately 20 pack year history of smoking. 
The patient quit cigarettes 20 years ago. 
Ethanol history was social. 
The patient is married , has two grown children. 
He currently works in a short term storage warehouse office , apparently recently lost his tobacco shop business and there is certainly a potential stress regarding his employment situation and recent death of his sister-in-law following a prolonged illness. 
He denies family history of coronary artery disease , hypertension or diabetes. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Non-contributory. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was a thin white male in no acute distress sitting up on the stretcher. 
Vital signs demonstrated he was afebrile , blood pressure 140/90 , pulse 88 , respirations 18. 
His room air O2 sat was 96%. 
HEENT exam normocephalic , atraumatic. 
Left pupil was 5 mm and contracted to 3; right pupil was 4 mm and contracted to 3. His extraocular movements were intact. 
Fundi were poorly visualized secondary to possible partial cataract. 
Oropharynx was only remarkable for extensive upper bridge work. 
Neck was supple , no adenopathy. 
His carotids were 1+ bilaterally without bruits. 
His chest exam was remarkable for decreased breath sounds halfway up , right greater than left , with absent breath sounds at the bases. 
The chest was dull to percussion halfway up , however , there were no rales , wheezes or rhonchi noted. 
Cardiac exam revealed jugular venous pulse was approximately 7 cm at 30 degrees , regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 with loud S4 , otherwise no murmur or rub. 
Abdominal exam demonstrated bowel sounds were present , non-tender , liver span 8 cm in midclavicular line. 
There was no spleen tip palpable. 
Rectal exam normal tone with a firm prostate without masses and stool was guaiac negative. 
Back exam revealed no spinal or CVA tenderness noted. 
There was slight buffalo hump present , however. 
Extremities - Radial pulses 3+ , femoral 2+ , posterior tibial 2+ on the right and 1+ on the left , dorsal pedis 1+ bilaterally. 
There are no femoral bruits. 
There was 1+ pitting ankle edema bilaterally. 
Neuro exam was non-focal. 
LABORATORY DATA: On admission sodium 141 , potassium 4.6 , chloride 105 , CO2 24 , BUN 19 , creatinine 0.9 , glucose 178. 
ALT 20 , AST 18 , LDH 177. 
CK 107. 
Alk phos 98 , bili total 0.5 , direct 0.2. 
Cholesterol 236 , triglycerides 320. 
Total protein 7.0 , globulin 4.6 , albumin 2.4 , calcium 9.9 , phosphate 3.8. 
White count 6.6 , Hct 39.8 , platelets 260 , 000 , three point differential revealed 26% lymphocytes , 5.8% monocytes , 68.2% granulocytes. 
PT was 12.6 , PTT 31.0. 
UA was pending. 
EKG showed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 84 , PR interval 160 , QRS 84 , QTC 0.44 , axis +30. 
The EKG was remarkable for Q wave in T and F and extensively across the precordium , T wave inversions in 1 , 2 , and R. ST elevations of 2 to 3 mm in V2 , V3 , and V4 with T wave inversion in V2 through V6 , all of these changes new since 21 of April .  
Portable chest x-ray demonstrated bilateral pleural effusions with fluid in the minor fissures , question of cardiomegaly , increasing pulmonary vascular redistribution consistent with congestive heart failure. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the General Medical Service Ing Si Ho and subsequently ruled out for MI by enzymes. 
His initial CK was 107. 
Eight hours later his CK drawn was 45 and final CK was 89. However , the patient underwent echocardiography and the echocardiogram demonstrated a moderately dilated left ventricle with decreased global contractile function , roughly estimated at around 25%. 
There were extensive wall motion abnormalities with mid to distal septal akinesis , anterior , anterolateral , and septal apex dyskinesis consistent with a large anterior myocardial infarction. 
However , there was no mural thrombus seen although occult thrombi could not be excluded at that time. 
Because of the echocardiogram result and the fact that the patient ruled out for a recent MI the clinical picture was consistent with an evolved myocardial infarction within the time between the patient's initial presentation to Dr. Pidro in 10 of October and the patient's presentation in 16 of October .  
Consequently the plan was made to manage the patient with gentle Lasix diuresis. 
The patient's beta blocker was held because of the concern for wall motion abnormalities and possible aneurysm formation. 
The patient was anticoagulated on heparin and subsequently was loaded on Coumadin. 
In addition the patient's afterload reduction was increased and changed to Captopril. 
In addition the patient underwent an exercise tolerance test with thallium scan on 1 of November .  
During this procedure the patient exercised for 6 minutes on modified Bruce protocol. 
The test was stopped secondary to leg fatigue. 
The patient's heart rate rose from 98 to 150 , blood pressure rose from 126/72 to 148/76. 
The patient had no chest pain. 
There was no evidence for ischemia. 
Thallium images showed a moderately severe perfusion defect at the apex sustained to the low anterior wall , inferolateral wall , and septum. 
This defect was unchanged on late images. 
There were , therefore , no signs of ischemia , however , there was some mild transient loss of uptake consistent with CHF. 
The overall impression was of a fixed defect consistent with an evolved myocardial infarction. 
Because of the evidence for an evolved myocardial infarction the decision was made that this patient would not be a candidate for coronary artery bypass grafting and so cardiac catheterization was deferred at this time. 
The patient was discharged to home on 16 of April .  
At the time of discharge a UA and sediment were pending. 
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Lasix 40 mg po q d , Captopril 37.5 mg po tid , Ecotrin 325 mg po q d , Coumadin 5 mg po q h.s. , magnesium oxide two tablets po q d , Isordil 10 mg po tid with meals , and Micronase 10 mg po bid. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. 
FOLLOW-UP: With Dr. Cole Emanuelson in his office on Tuesday , 9 of August , at 3 p.m. ________________________________ LL290/4971 COLE D. EMANUELSON , M.D. ER8 D: 10/15/90 Batch: 9533 Report: G0589N8 T: 2/18/90 Dictated By: DION POLLIO VVX5 cc: 1. BRITTANEY HAMBLET , M.D.