275517606 | PUO | 86700356 | | 932716 | 1/13/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/13/1991 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 9/20/1991 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: UNSTABLE ANGINA , ADMITTED FOR PERCUTANEOUS TRANSLUMINAL CORONARY ANGIOPLASTY. 
HYPERTENSION. 
BILATERAL RENAL ARTERY STENOSIS. 
STATUS POST ONE EPISODE OF ATRIAL FIBRILLATION ON 13 of October , WITH SPONTANEOUS RESOLUTION. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient was a 50 year old white male transferred from Akcare Hospital after an episode of atrial fibrillation on 13 of October , and unstable angina. 
Cardiac risk factors included hypertension , smoking , family history. 
He had a myocardial infarction in 1970 , and had been basically pain-free until 1985 , when he began experiencing stable angina , requiring one sublingual nitroglycerin every 2 weeks. 
His typical anginal equivalent is bilateral wrist tingling , plus some left arm or chest pressure. 
The pain is brought on by exertion , relieved by nitroglycerin and rest. 
His last exercise tolerance test with thallium was in 26 of September , when he went 5 minutes on a standard Bruce protocol , and stopped because of fatigue. 
Maximal blood pressure was 165/85 , heart rate 95 , rate pressure product 15675. 
He experienced his typical wrist discomfort , an his electrocardiogram showed left ventricular hypertrophy with strain , focal premature ventricular contractions and ventricular bigeminy. 
There was no evidence of ischemia on the thallium images. 
On 13 of October , the patient experienced a left arm dull ache radiating to the left side of his chest , unlike his usual angina equivalent. 
It was not relieved by nitroglycerin or by rest. 
He called his Carna Home Hospital physician and went to his local hospital. 
He denied palpitations , shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis. 
On presentation , he was found to be in atrial fibrillation with ventricular rate 140. 
He spontaneously converted to normal sinus rhythm and sinus bradycardia to 55. He had no previous history of atrial fibrillation. 
The patient ruled out for a myocardial infarction , and while in the hospital experienced 3 to 4 episodes of his usual anginal equivalent of wrist pain , relieved by 1 nitroglycerin each time. 
It was unclear whether these symptoms were associated with electrocardiogram changes. 
He received intravenous trinitroglycerin at some point , and he was transferred here for further evaluation of his rest pain. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY revealed hypertension , ischemic heart disease as above , peptic ulcer disease , hiatal hernia. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION at the time of transfer were diltiazem 90 milligrams by mouth 4 times a day , Lopressor 25 milligrams by mouth twice a day , Isordil 40 milligrams by mouth twice a day , Lisinopril 5 milligrams by mouth twice a day , Zantac 150 milligrams by mouth at hour of sleep , digoxin .25 milligrams by mouth per day. 
ALLERGIES included no known drug allergies. 
FAMILY HISTORY was positive for coronary artery disease. 
SOCIAL HISTORY revealed the patient has a desk job at a furniture store. 
He used to smoke 3 packs per day , quit 6 years ago. 
He drinks 3 beers a week. 
He lives with his wife and one son at home , and 2 other grown children. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS was negative. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Blood pressure was 190/90 , pulse 60 and regular , respiratory rate 16 , no acute distress. 
Head and neck examination was unremarkable , jugular venous pressure flat. 
Chest showed diminished breath sounds diffusely , no wheezes or crackles. 
Cardiovascular examination showed a III/VI systolic ejection murmur loudest at the aortic area , and a II/VI systolic murmur at the apex radiating halfway to the axilla. 
Abdomen was soft , benign. 
Femoral pulses were 2+ bilaterally with bruits left greater than right. 
Extremities showed no cyanosis , clubbing or edema , palpable pedal pulses. 
Neurologic examination was nonfocal. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: An echocardiogram at the outside hospital on 9 of September , showed left atrium size 42 millimeters , mild left ventricular hypertrophy , posterior hypokinesis , preserved systolic function , aortic sclerosis with a peak pressure gradient of 36 mm/HG , read as moderate aortic stenosis with mild aortic regurgitation. 
The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm at 70 , left axis deviation , left ventricular hypertrophy , left atrial enlargement , T-wave inversion in I and AVL , V5 and V6 , strain pattern. 
Chest x-ray was unremarkable. 
SMA-7 was within normal limits , blood urea nitrogen 13 , creatinine 1.1. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: While in the hospital , the patient underwent cardiac catheterization with percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the left circumflex and right coronary artery on 18 of May , and bilateral renal artery angioplasty on 20 of February .  
The patient remained in normal sinus rhythm. 
He experienced angina on 2 of February , with ischemic changes anterolaterally. 
He underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty on 18 of May , and his 90% stenosis of the obtuse marginal branch #2 was reduced to 30% and the 90% right coronary artery distal lesion was reduced to a 30% residual. 
He tolerated the procedure well with no complications. 
He also underwent renal angiography , which showed bilateral renal artery stenosis , and for this he underwent bilateral renal artery angioplasty on 20 of February , which he also tolerated well. 
Renal arteriography and angioplasty were performed becuase of drug-resistant hypertension and continued hypokalemia requiring K repletion even when off diuretics. 
Prior work-up had revealed no evidence for hyperaldosteronism. 
DISPOSITION: CONDITION ON DISCHARGE was good. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE were Isordil 30 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day , Zantac 150 milligrams by mouth at hour of sleep , Ecotrin 1 by mouth per day , K-Dur 40 mEq by mouth twice a day , Nifedipine 30 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day , digoxin .25 milligrams by mouth per day , Lopressor 100 milligrams by mouth twice a day. 
It was felt that in time his antihypertensives can be adjusted as necessary. 
VH327/5150 CARA BARNABA , M.D. HL86 D: 9/5/91 Batch: 5066 Report: T5952T0 T: 3/9/91 Dictated By: CAROYLN REIDHERD , M.D. cc: 1. MELDA IVASKA , M.D.