896890694 | PUO | 49034699 | | 493218 | 7/8/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/15/1993 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 8/4/1993 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Marzella is a 43-year-old status post coronary artery bypass graft who presents complaining of left arm and hand numbness with tingling for twenty-four hours. 
The patient has a long history of coronary artery disease starting with development of angina in 1989. 
Ultimately , in 27 of June of 1991 , he underwent angioplasty of the lad which re-stenosed. 
In 25 of June of 1992 , he had an myocardial infarction and ultimately underwent a exercise tolerance test which was negative and he was not catheterized and it was treated with Coumadin for clot. 
In 16 of March of 1992 , he had a non-Q wave myocardial infarction with a peak CK of 231 , 6% MB. 
A catheterization at that time showed 100% LAD with right to left collateralization , an 80% circ and a 70% OM2. 
He under coronary artery bypass graft with a saphenous to the OM1 and OM2 and a LIMA to the LAD. 
The coronary artery bypass graft was complicated by ventricular fibrillation arrest and he did have EPS done at that time. 
Two months later , an echocardiogram showed an akinetic septum and akinetic apex and decreased left ventricular function with an ejection fraction of about 40%. 
Since his coronary artery bypass graft , the patient denies any chest pain , shortness of breath or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. 
He is fairly active , walking a reasonable amount per day but has not yet returned to work. 
Last evening after playing a video arcade game , the patient noted a pins and needle sensation from the elbow to the left hand along the lateral side of the arm and a sense of clumsiness with the left hand. 
He went to sleep but this feeling persisted in the morning and he called the CENH .  
He was evaluated there and sent for carotid noninvasives in the area which showed a 15% left and a 60% right ICA stenosis by report and was transferred to the Pagham University Of Emergency Room. 
In the Emergency Room , he was thought to have proximal hand weakness and upgoing toe on that same side and EKG changes so he was admitted. 
Presently , the patient complains of decreased tingling in the hand but still some numbness less so on the forearm. 
He denies headache , nausea , vomiting or visual changes. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history is significant for noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus , coronary artery disease as above , gout , proteinuria with 2.4 grams of protein in a 24-hour urine in 1989 , morbid obesity. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Lopressor 12.5 mg po b.i.d. and an aspirin a day. 
ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: He is a mechanic though not currently working. 
He is married. 
He was a smoker until 1992 , when he quit. 
He also drank significant amounts of alcohol until 1992 , when she also quit. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is an obese white male in no apparent distress. 
Blood pressure 142/76. 
Pulse: 79 and afebrile. 
The physical examination showed the head and neck examination that was unremarkable with fundi that showed no palpable edema. 
The lungs were clear to auscultations. 
The cardiac examination was unremarkable. 
The abdomen examination was obese but had no masses or tenderness. 
He had trace lower extremity edema , left greater than the right , consistent with saphenous vein harvest site with good peripheral pulses. 
He was guaiac negative on rectal exam. 
His neurological examination showed alert and oriented times three. 
His cranial nerves were intact. 
His discs were sharp bilaterally. 
He had a question of mild pronator drift on the left. 
His strength was 5 out of 5 except for 4 out of 5 interossei on the left. 
He was able to do rapid alternating movements. 
The finger-to-nose within normal limits. 
No objective sensory changes to light touch and pin prick. 
He did not extinguish to double simulanteous stimuli in his hands of feet. 
His gait was within normal limits. 
LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION: His white count was 9.9 , hematocrit 43.9 , platelets of 245 , glucose 115 , BUN/creatinine 24/0.7 , EKG normal sinus at 70. He pseudonormalization of T-waves in V2 through V6 , 1 and L. The chest X-ray showed no acute changes. 
A CT of the head showed a very vague and subtle area of decreased attenuation in the posterior right frontal lobe. 
There was no mass effect or no blood. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for presumed new stroke. 
He was begun on Heparin and ultimately once the Heparin was therapeutic , he was begun on a Coumadin load. 
His symptoms of numbness and weakness in the left hand gradually improved over the course of his hospital stay and he had no other new significant symptoms. 
A repeat head CT at seventy-two hours showed essentially the same vague density as seen on the previous CT. 
In addition , he underwent a repeat echocardiogram which showed no significant changes and no evidence of clot. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home in stable condition on 8/26/93 . 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Discharge medications include Lopressor 12.5 mg po b.i.d. and enteric coating aspirin one po q day and Coumadin 10 mg po hs. 
FOLLOW-UP: He is to follow up with his CHH primary doctor of a PT check a couple of days after the discharge. 
Dictated By: DENISHA H. MCRORIE , M.D. AX6 Attending: SERENA DENCH , M.D. YK32  KRCGI/5679 Batch: 9141 Index No. DLVBKR0931 D: 10/20/93 T: 10/20/93