805053407 | PUO | 90043314 | | 3353209 | 1/25/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/21/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: ATTENDING: CASSEM , JERAMY M.D. PRELIMINARY DISCHARGE SUMMARY. 
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS ON DISCHARGE: Aspiration pneumonia , line infection , refractor asthma. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 59-year-old female well known to the team on admission with a history of COPD/asthma , history of intubation , CHF ( EF of 30% ) , diabetes , schizoaffective disorder who presents with worsening shortness of breath and dyspnea as well as night sweats from Sa Pehall .  
She was discharged from GMS to rehab on January after being admitted for shortness of breath and treated as a COPD flare with one week of azithromycin , prednisone taper and nebulizer treatments. 
She was discharged with good O2 sats in the 90s on two liters ( her home O2 requirement is 2 liters ). 
Now she presents with worsening shortness of breath , night sweats and cough which is productive. 
She denies chest pain , palpitations , lightheadedness , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea. 
She also finished a course of levofloxacin after an admit from July to 2 of May for similar symptoms. 
She was transferred from the Sa Pehall to P Therford Hospital ED with vital signs at that time were 99.5 , heart rate of 120 , blood pressure of 105/35 , and a respiratory rate of 36 , and 81% on room air and 86% on 5 liters. 
She received 1 mg of Ativan , 5 duonebs , 500 mg IV of clindamycin , 500 mg of levofloxacin. 
Her ABG at that time was 7.32/82/113 . 
Her troponin was 0.13 and her BNP was 29. 
It was thought that she required ICU care and since no beds were available at Norap Valley Hospital , she was transferred to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of . 
Her vital signs on admission include a heart rate of 110 , a blood pressure of 190/55 , respiratory rate of 32 and sats 87 to 89% on 4 liters , going up to 95% on 6 liters. 
She received vancomycin 1.5 IV x1 , albuterol and Atrovent nebs stack as well as aspirin. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Remarkable for COPD/asthma with last pulmonary function tests in October 2005 showing an FVC of 41% , FEV1 of 0.74 liters , 33% , and a ratio of FEV1/FVC of 83%. 
Also , schizoaffective disorder/questionable bipolar , GERD , diabetes , CHF with EF of 30% , and an echo in October 2005 , hypertension and steroid myopathy. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Aspirin 325. 
2. Dig 0.25. 
3. Colace 100 b.i.d. 4. Guaifenesin 10 ml q. 4 p.r.n. for cough. 
5. Insulin NPH 56/12. 
6. Isordil 10 t.i.d. 7. Lactulose 15. 8. Lisinopril 5. 9. Ativan 0.5 mg q. 6 p.r.n. for anxiety. 
10. 
Milk of Magnesia 30 p.r.n. constipation. 
11. 
Robaxin 1 , 500 t.i.d. 12. Nystatin 5 q.i.d. 13. 
Prednisone 10. 14. 
MDI Atrovent q. 4. 15. 
Risperdal 3. 16. 
Miconazole powder topical b.i.d. 17. Seroquel 200/600. 
18. Singulair 10. 19. 
Vitamin D 3-400. 
20. Trileptal 75 b.i.d. 21. Depakote 250. 
22. Advair 1 puff b.i.d. 23. 
Caltrate Plus D. 24. 
Duonebs p.r.n. 25. 
??_____?? Insulin 6 q.a.c. 26. Levalbuterol 1.25 t.i.d. 27. 
Lasix 80. ALLERGIES: Penicillin , sulfa. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives alone but has husband who is involved in her care. 
Attends Geri-day program three times per week. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Heart rate of 105 , blood pressure 98/64. 
Sat of 94% on six liters. 
On general exam , she was morbidly obese , working to breathe , speaking in phrases. 
Wanting water. 
Respiratory distress. 
HEENT: Tearing eyes. 
Sclerae anicteric. 
Extraocular muscles intact. 
Oropharynx was clear. 
Chest with very poor air movement. 
It was end expiratory wheezes throughout. 
Her cardiovascular: JVP not visualized secondary to body habitus. 
Tachycardic. 
Distant heart sounds. 
Abdomen was soft , obese , nontender , nondistended. 
Her extremities: There was 2+ edema to the knee level. 
LABS: Remarkable labs on admission include a creatinine of 1.7 , a bicarb of 38 , her BNP was 29 , troponin was 0.13. 
Her crit was 32.4 , white blood count 7.6 , and platelets 267. 
On the differential her white blood count was 93 polys , no bands. 
Coags were within normal limits. 
Her UA was ??__??. EKG showed sinus tachycardia 106 , some T-wave inversions in lead 1 , some flattening in lead 5 , but essentially unchanged from prior. 
Chest x-ray: Portable AP view with stable cardiomegaly , questionable of lower lobe infiltrate but no evidence of CHF. 
ANALYSIS AND PLAN: On admission , this is a 59-year-old female with history of recent COPD and asthma exacerbation , diabetes , CHF , who presents with worsening shortness of breath and suspected right middle lobe pneumonia. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: 1. Pulmonary: The patient presented with hypercarbic , hypoxemic respiratory distress , most likely secondary to a recurrent pneumonia in the setting of her baseline obstructive/restrictive pulmonary disease. 
She was not found to be volume overloaded on admission , and she had a D-Dimer that was negative as well. 
Her restrictive lung disease is most likely secondary to her body habitus leading to obesity hyperventilation syndrome and her obstructive disease have components of asthma since has responsive bronchodilation after beta-agonist. 
The management of her respiratory status involved initially starting on steroids , prednisone 60 mg , frequent nebs , as well as continuing her Advair and Singulair. 
It was also planned to use BiPAP since she might have sleep apnea component despite no objective data supporting that. 
She on second day of hospital stay , was under increased respiratory distress. 
A repeat blood gas showed a pH of 7.27 , a PCO2 of 88 , and a PO2 of 82 on 50% of O2. 
Since clinically patient was deteriorating , it was decided that she would benefit of intubation. 
The patient was intubated on May and was placed on AC mode. 
On ventilation , the patient initially required AC since she was not able to maintain good total volumes on pressure support. 
Multiple times that it was attempted to wean her off the ventilator , she developed increased respiratory distress and decreased total volume with ventilator mechanics showing increased airway resistance. 
Despite frequent nebs , she was unable to be weaned off the ventilator. 
On January , after multiple attempts , it was decided that she would benefit from longterm ventilatory support. 
She underwent a PEG and tracheostomy placement by Dr. Bancourt with no complications. 
Since January , her ventilatory settings were decreased to pressure support with peep of 5 and a pressure support of 10. 
She had two recurrent episodes of increased respiratory distress when moved in bed. 
It was suspected that her respiratory distress was related to a mechanical obstruction of her tracheostomy and prior to discharge , she will be getting a different trach recommended by surgery which will minimize this mechanical obstruction. 
Otherwise , she is currently on 40% of FIO2 and a peep of 5 , pressure support of 12 and at those settings she is getting tidal volumes in the range from 380 to 450 and O2 sats between 98 and 100%. 
2. ID: Her chest x-ray had a suspected right middle lobe infiltrate in addition to the fever and increased white blood count. 
It was decided that she would benefit from nosocomial pneumonia coverage. 
Her first course of antibiotics included levo , clinda. 
, as well as vancomycin. 
Cultures of her sputum and blood were sent , were negative. 
Her sputum cultures just grew oral flora and her blood cultures initially were all negative but on January , she had a positive culture for staph. 
, guaiac negative , in the setting of a central venous line. 
It was thought at that moment that she had secondary infection which was MSSE line infection and all lines were pulled and she was continued on vancomycin for another 14 days. 
Her antibiotics were switched to ceftaz. 
, azithromycin , clindamycin and vancomycin. 
She received a total of 21 days of antibiotics and prior to discharge had finished her ceftaz. 
and Flagyl. 
She also received a 14 day course of vancomycin after the central venous lines were removed and since then she has been afebrile and all blood cultures after October have been negative , so about 10 days with negative blood cultures and sputum cultures. 
Just prior to discharge , her left IJ line will be removed since she just finished her course of antibiotics as well as her peripheral A line. 
Endocrine: The patient received high dose of steroids , prednisone 60 mg , for about two weeks and had a couple of attempts to decrease the prednisone but responded with increased broncho-resistance on ventilator measurements and it was decided to keep her at a higher dose. 
The week prior to admission , a slow tapering was started with 50 mg for 5 days , then 50 mg for another 4 days and on discharge , she was on the transition point to 30 mg. 
She was getting calcium carbonate and vitamin D for osteoporosis prevention. 
Her diabetes was managed with Lantus 100 units a day with Portland Insulin Protocol on initial ICU stay transitioned to Regular Insulin scale. 
She was not needing any extra insulin units prior to discharge. 
Cardiovascular: A. Ischemia: The patient had recent workup for CAD including Cath which was negative , but she did have an elevation troponin which was likely secondary to demand ischemia with spontaneous resolution. 
She was continued on aspirin. 
There was no angina or new changes in EKG during this admission. 
B. Pump: She looked slightly volume overloaded on admission. 
She received Lasix 80 IV b.i.d. and her diuretic regimen was titrated and she might need , once discharged , a standing dose of Lasix to maintain her I's and O's goal even. 
Her blood pressure off the ACE inhibitor on hospital stay ranged between 112 and 130. 
We plan to restart her on a small-dose ACE inhibitor prior to discharge with the objective of better blood pressure control as well as renal protection from her diabetes. 
We will not restart Isordil since patient had no evidence of coronary artery disease. 
Psych: We will continue home regimen of Trileptal , Depakote as well as Risperdal. 
Heme: Her hematocrit has remained stable during this admission. 
Since she was getting multiple blood draws , she received about 2 units of packed red blood cells and all her workup for a source of anemia was negative including vitamin B12 , including iron studies as well. 
Her heme ?__? panel was also negative. 
Musculoskeletal: Patient had an infiltrative ?___? on her left arm around her peripheral IV access. 
The infiltration lead to a large ulcer which was managed by Plastics. 
They recommended only b.i.d. dressing changes. 
There were no signs of evident infection in the site and healing since that event has been quite good. 
There are some signs of granulation tissue in the ulcer base but no erythema or pus around it. 
Physical Therapy has been involved in the case and have been doing tremendous work in putting her sitting upright , as well as gaining increased strength on her extremity. 
She is still unable to raise her arm against gravity but she has 2/5 muscle strength throughout and she will likely need intensive rehab once she is discharged. 
FEN: She had a metabolic test performed which yielded a measure resting energy expender of 2121 kilocalories a day and a predicted basal metabolic rate of 1771 kilocalories a day. 
Those results yielded to an increase in her tube feedings which are consisted of Osmolite 1.2 at 70 cc an hour. 
eScription document: 2-9694555 MCS Dictated By: ALSPAUGH , KERRY Attending: CASSEM , JERAMY Dictation ID 8716547 D: 3/8/05 T: 3/8/05