351667992 | PUO | 22298869 | | 943469 | 6/2/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/25/1995 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 7/21/1995 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: LEFT LOWER EXTREMITY WOUND INFECTION HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 54 year old gentleman who is status post a four vessel coronary artery bypass graft on 6/15/95 at an outside hospital. 
The patient's postoperative course was complicated by respiratory failure secondary to presumed phrenic nerve injury. 
The patient also developed congestive heart failure. 
In addition , the patient had undergone embolectomy and left lower extremity fasciotomy for left lower extremity ischemia on 5/25/95 . 
The patient now presents to Dr. Burston with infected left lower leg pressure ulcer with open and gangrenous muscle exposed through this posterior wound. 
The patient was at the rehabilitation center prior to this transfer to the Pagham University Of .  
The patient had no documented febrile episodes. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , peripheral vascular disease , coronary artery disease , congestive heart failure , history of atrial fibrillation/flutter , right sacroiliac joint decubitus ulcer. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: As above. 
Coronary artery bypass graft on 7/23/95 . 
Left lower extremity fasciotomy on 5/25/95 . 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Aspirin 81 mg po qd 2. Digoxin 0.325 mg po qd 3. Azmacort 6 puffs inhaled bid 4. Heparin 5000 units subcu bid 5. Zantac 150 mg po bid 6. Lasix 40 mg po qd 7. Capoten 25 mg q 8 8. Albuterol nebulizers 0.5 cc in 2.5 cc normal saline qid 9. NPH insulin 38 units subcu bid 10. 
Nystatin swish and swallow 5 cc po qid 11. 
Bactrim DS one tab po bid THE PATIENT HAS NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Significant for 100 pack/year history. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 100. 
Blood pressure 120/47 , pulse 103 , sinus tachycardia. 
In general , the patient was trached and in no acute distress. 
The patient's skin revealed mottled distal extremities. 
HEENT: normocephalic , atraumatic head. 
Trach was in place with a collar. 
Lungs: bilateral inspiratory wheezes , scattered throughout. 
Heart: regular rhythm with sinus tachycardia. 
Distant heart sounds. 
No S3 or S4 were noted. 
The patient had no obvious murmurs. 
Abdomen: positive bowel sounds. 
The patient was obese. 
Abdomen was nontender , nondistended with no palpable masses. 
The patient had multiple ecchymoses. 
Neurologic: the patient was alert and oriented times three. 
Cranial nerves II through XII grossly intact. 
Extremities: right buttock with approximately a 10 square centimeter decubitus ulcer. 
The patient's right lower extremity revealed a previous harvest scar with about a 2 cm incision and breakdown over the calf area. 
Distal foot has a mottled appearance but has Dopplerable posterior tibial and dorsalis pedis pulses. 
The toes are cool and insensate. 
Left lower extremity revealed three open ulcers with marked gangrenous muscle exposure. 
The patient had a Dopplerable posterior tibial with cold pulses but no Dopplerable dorsalis pedis pulse. 
The patient was insensate distally from the region of the wounds down to the feet. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the Operating Room on 9/11/95 for a preoperative diagnosis of a left lower extremity infected pressure sore. 
Intraoperatively , the patient was noted to have necrosis of both heads of the gastrocnemius muscle including the soleus and also a portion of the lateral compartment. 
The muscle appeared black and necrotic and there was a marked amount of purulence. 
Aerobic and anaerobic cultures were obtained at this time and sent to Microbiology for gram stains and cultures. 
All of the visibly blackened and necrotic muscle was removed and the wound was irrigated with copious amounts of antibiotic-containing solution. 
The patient appeared to tolerate the procedure well and was sent to the Intensive Care Unit , given the patient's cardiac history as well as his ventilator dependence. 
The patient was seen by the Infectious Disease service and was started on Ampicillin , Gentamicin and Flagyl empirically until culture results returned. 
The patient was taken back on 2/8/95 for a second irrigation and debridement procedure. 
During this procedure , some necrotic skin , subcutaneous tissue and fascia were noted and were sharply debrided free. 
The wound was relatively clean upon completion of the procedure with no apparent loculations or collections or purulence. 
The muscle also at this time appeared viable and it was considered that the wound may heal on its own. 
The patient was seen by the Vascular Surgery service as well for his history of left lower extremity ischemia and for his loss of his dorsalis pedis pulse on his left foot. 
The left foot remained cool and insensate with no motor function. 
The patient did however have flexion and extension at the knee. 
After adequate irrigation and debridement , it was felt that the patient would not require amputation of his lower extremity given the viability of the muscle. 
NEUROLOGIC. 
The patient was alert and awake postoperatively. 
The patient was appropriate in his neurologic status. 
The patient however did appear to have some episodes of anxiety for which he was placed on Klonopin 1 mg po tid. 
The patient continued to do well and had his pain adequately controlled with po Percocet. 
RESPIRATORY. 
The patient was initially weaned off the ventilator to continue his positive airway pressure with 5 of PEEP and 5 of pressure support with 50% FIO2. 
The patient's tidal volumes were consistently elevated over 600 and the patient had no subjective complaints of shortness of breath. 
However , on postoperative day #4 and #2 , the patient noted some difficulty catching his breath. 
Pressure support was increased back up to 10. 
This inability of the patient to maintain his spontaneous tidal volumes was consistent with a respiratory fatigue secondary to his diaphragmatic dysfunction. 
However because the patient appeared to be weaning from the ventilator initially postop , it was decided that the patient should have his diaphragmatic function assessed to see if there had been any change. 
The patient underwent a fluoroscopy study to assess his diaphragmatic excursions on 10/29/95 . 
The test revealed no diaphragmatic excursion consistent with phrenic nerve injury. 
It was decided at this time that the patient would remain on his previous ventilator settings of 10 of pressure support and 5 of CPAP and 50% FIO2 and no further weaning would be attempted. 
GASTROINTESTINAL. 
The patient arrived on tube feedings of Promote. 
Because we do not have this at our institution , the patient was started on a similar formula of full strength Ensure High Protein at 105 cc/hour. 
This meets the patient's full nutritional requirements. 
However , because the patient appears to have no reason for not encouraging his oral intake , the patient's tube feeds were decreased to 50 cc/hour throughout the day for a 12 hour period and po intake at this time was encouraged. 
The patient then received 12 hours of his tube feeds at 105 from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. 
The patient was placed back on his normal subcutaneous doses of insulin NPH 38 units in the morning and 38 units at night. 
The patient has been treated intermittently with insulin drip for control of his blood sugars during the times he was taken to and from the Operating Room. 
Our goal for this patient is to attempt to encourage his oral intake and to cycle his tube feeds only at night. 
The patient should have 24 hour calorie counts initiated to assess the adequacy of this oral intake. 
GU. 
The patient has a Foley catheter in place and has good urine output. 
The patient has excoriations around his inner thighs which prevented us from removing his Foley in case the pt has episodes of urinary incontinence. 
Once the patient's inner thighs heal , the patient may have the Foley removed and the patient may be able to void on his own in either a bedside urinal or with a condom cath in place. 
The patient is receiving his Lasix 40 mg a day. 
CARDIOVASCULAR. 
The patient was initially ruled out for a myocardial infarction following his first operative procedure. 
The patient has had no complaints of chest pain. 
The patient's cardiovascular status has been stable with CVP's running in the 12 to 13 range. 
The patient had no episodes of hypotension and has been continued on his Capoten. 
HEMATOLOGIC. 
The patient has been stable with no issues. 
The patient continues on subcutaneous heparin. 
INFECTIOUS DISEASE. 
The patient was treated with Ampicillin , Gentamicin and Flagyl. 
The patient's intraoperative cultures from his left leg ulcer grew out E. coli , sensitive to Ampicillin and Ofloxacin. 
The patient also grew out Enterococcus , sensitive also to Ampicillin and Ofloxacin and Enterobacter cloacae , sensitive to Gentamicin and Ofloxacin. 
The patient was switched over from Gentamicin to Ofloxacin to continue his antibiotic course. 
The patient has been followed by the Infectious Disease service. 
Because of the time of operation , it was considered that the infectious tissue was completely debrided , and the patient does not need to continue on an extensive antibiotic course. 
The patient will receive 7 more days of po Ofloxacin as an outpatient as per the ID service. 
The patient will have received , prior to discharge , a total of 7 days of IV Ampicillin and Ofloxacin. 
The Flagyl was discontinued after day #6. TUBES/LINES/DRAINS. 
The patient had a triple lumen catheter in place which was removed on the day prior to discharge. 
The patient had a peripheral IV placed in instead. 
The patient will not be receiving any IV medications and will continue on oral antibiotic dosings. 
ADDENDUM DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: The patient's medication upon discharge which include: 1 ) Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q4h p.r.n. headache. 
2 ) Aspirin 81 mg p.o. qd. 3 ) Albuterol nebulizer 0.5 cc in 2.5 cc of normal saline q.i.d. 4 ) Capoten 25 mg p.o. qh. 5 ) Chloral hydrate 500 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia. 
6 ) Clonopin 1 mg p.o. t.i.d. 7 ) Digoxin 0.375 mg p.o. qd. 8 ) Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 9 ) Lasix 40 mg p.o. q d. 10 ) Heparin 5000 units subcu b.i.d. 11 ) Insulin NPH 38 units subcu b.i.d. 12 ) Milk of Magnesia 30 cc p.o. qd p.r.n. constipation. 
13 ) Multivitamins one capsule p.o. qd. 14 ) Mycostatin 5 cc p.o. q.i.d. 15 ) Percocet one or two tabs p.o. q3-4h p.r.n. pain. 
16 ) Metamucil one packet p.o. qd. 17 ) Azmacort six puffs inhaled b.i.d. 18 ) Axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. 19 ) Ofloxacin 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. x 7 days. 
Dictated By: GERMAINE L. BLACKGOAT , M.D. XV68 Attending: SCOTTIE BURSTON , M.D. EL37  FU131/0524 Batch: 138 Index No. ONDAH63ZO1 D: 10/28/95 T: 10/28/95 CC: 1. SCOTTIE BURSTON , M.D. NQ12 2. GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D. SE6 3. LEOLA C. MUSICH , M.D. GF37 4. PRINGRYSHIRE LIHART HOSPITAL