470665576 | PUO | 75985858 | | 2568836 | 5/6/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/22/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: ATTENDING: BARNABA , CARA CHANCE MD DISCHARGE DATE: To be determined. 
SERVICE: Cardiology Linwhite Pkwy. 
, Beau Pro , Nevada 98896 ADMISSION WEIGHT: 139.4 kg. 
DISCHARGE WEIGHT: 130.3 kg. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Increasing dyspnea on exertion. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 59-year-old woman with two weeks of dyspnea on exertion , increased pedal edema presents to the Emergency Department. 
She reports that over the past 3-4 weeks she has had a slow increase in her lower extremity edema and gradual increase in her weight and moderate increase in dyspnea on exertion. 
She has taken increased Bumex and also tried Zaroxolyn at home without effect. 
She reports strict adherence to a diet and fluid restriction and her medications. 
She urinates clear urine multiple times a day and at night. 
She reports no orthopnea , no PND , less shortness of breath at rest , no chest pain , no fevers , chills , nausea , vomiting , or diaphoresis. 
She does report increased facial edema , increased swelling in her hands , and increased abdominal girth. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. CHF ( diastolic dysfunction , EF of 60% on biweekly outpatient nesiritide ). 2. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus complicated by gastroparesis , chronic renal insufficiency , and retinopathy. 
3. Chronic renal insufficiency ( baseline creatinine 3.2 to 4.6 ). 4. Depression. 5. Recent Mallory-Weiss tear. 
6. Morbid obesity. 
7. Anemia. 
8. Hypercholesterolemia 9. Right leg superficial femoral thrombus extending into the deep vein system on Coumadin ( diagnosed in 4/9 ). 
10. Nephrotic syndrome. 
11. 
Chronic back pain from spinal stenosis. 
ALLERGIES: Sulfa drugs have given an unknown reaction. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Avapro 300 mg q.d. , metoprolol XL 300 mg q.d. , aspirin 81 mg q.d. , Respirdal 1 mg p.r.n. , epoetin 20 , 000 q. week , Norvasc 20 mg b.i.d. , Coumadin 6 mg once a day , Nexium 40 mg q.d. , clonidine 0.3 mg b.i.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , iron sulfate 325 mg b.i.d. , NPH insulin 35 units subcu b.i.d. , meclizine 25 mg b.i.d. , Senna two tablets b.i.d. , Paxil 30 mg q.d. , Zocor 80 mg q.d. , Bumex 2 mg p.o. b.i.d. , and Zaroxolyn ( unknown dose ). 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Quit smoking one year ago previously smoked 20 pack years , no alcohol , no reported IV drug use. 
Lives in Delp alone , has no social supports but does have VNA at home , has three sisters and three brothers. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical exam , temperature 98 , pulse 87 , blood pressure 140/80 , respirations 18 , and 97% on room air. 
She is in no apparent distress. 
Pupils are equal and reactive. 
Extraocular movements are intact. 
Mucous membranes moist. 
JVP is approximately 5 cm. 
Heart is regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs , gallops , or rubs. 
Chest is clear to auscultation with no wheezes. 
Abdomen is obese with positive bowel sounds. 
Extremities shows 3+ , lower extremity edema and tenderness to the touch. 
Neuro is alert and oriented x3. 
Cranial nerves are intact. 
Skin shows no rashes. 
LABORATORY EXAMS: Initial BMP was 36 , sodium 135 , potassium 3.4 , chloride 98 , bicarbonate 27 , BUN 74 , creatinine 4.4 , white blood cell 6 , hematocrit 36 , platelets 155 , 000 , troponin I less than assay , CK 146 , MB 2.3. 
Chest x-ray , no changes from 2003. 
EKG normal sinus rhythm at 71. Left axis deviation. 
Question of left anterior hemiblock. 
Echo in 8/14 showed normal valves. 
EF of 65% to 70%. 
Mild LVH. 
Normal pulmonary artery systolic pressure. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: This 59-year-old female with multiple medical problems including morbid obesity , diabetes , CHF with diastolic dysfunction , and chronic renal insufficiency secondary to diabetes is on home nesiritide infusions and comes in with total body volume overload. 
She was aggressively diuresed during this hospitalization. 
COURSE BY SYSTEM: Cardiovascular: 1. Ischemia: The patient did not have any positive cardiac enzymes and no evidence of ischemia. 
She was maintained on aspirin , a beta-blocker , and a statin. 
2. Pump: The patient was diuresed aggressively. 
She was started on a continuous BNP drip along with Lasix 160 mg IV b.i.d. plus metolazone as needed to help diurese approximately 1 liter per day. 
The patient did not respond to p.o. Lasix. 
The patient was variably responsive to diuretics , but at the time of discharge , had diuresed down the 130.3 kg a drop of approximately 10 kg or approximately 22 pounds. 
The patient's BNP at the time of discharge was 8 and she was not felt to be in heart failure. 
She continued to have lower extremity edema that was felt likely secondary to venous stasis and lack of mobilization. 
Therefore , she was encouraged to mobilize and given compression stockings to help mobilize the fluid in her legs. 
At the time of discharge , she was diuresing well to oral Bumex and she was maintained on Bumex in order to keep her ins and outs even each days. 
3. Rhythm: The patient did not have issues from a rhythm perspective. 
Renal: The patient had a creatinine that climbed as high as 5.8 , during her hospitalization. 
She was felt to have an underlying diabetic nephropathy. 
The Renal Service ( Dr. Werner Casebier ) was consulted and felt that the patient would likely eventually need outpatient dialysis , however , there was no emergent indication for dialysis at this time. 
The patient has seen Dr. Rossie K Mankoski , at Pagham University Of , Vascular Surgery prior to this for consideration of a fistula placement and she will continue to follow up with Dr. Loerwald following discharge. 
Hematology: The patient was maintained on Coumadin for her history of a clot in the right and left superficial femoral vein , which was diagnosed in 4/9 and was noted to be extending towards the deep venous system. 
The patient was also continued on iron for her underlying anemia. 
Endocrine: The patient had diabetes and was maintained on her NPH plus a regular insulin sliding scale to control her blood sugars and her blood sugars were reasonably well controlled and generally below 200. 
Musculoskeletal: The patient was complaining of increasing cramps in her calves a few days prior to discharge. 
Therefore , lower extremity noninvasive ultrasound tests were repeated and these ruled out recurrent deep venous thrombosis. 
A CK was checked and this was normal and therefore , it was felt that the patient did not have any evidence of rhabdomyolysis or a compartment syndrome. 
It was felt that these pains were most likely secondary to venous pooling in the legs combined with inactivity. 
The patient was treated symptomatically with oxycodone and encouraged to ambulate to help mobilize the fluid out of her legs. 
FINAL MEDICATIONS: The final medications will be dictated at the time of discharge. 
eScription document: 9-6117100 EMS Dictated By: TUOMALA , HERMINA Attending: BARNABA , CARA CHANCE Dictation ID 4324424 D: 10/2/05 T: 10/2/05