729903734 | PUO | 03707858 | | 649556 | 6/7/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/7/1991 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 8/25/1991 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: ANEURYSM REPAIR. 
AUTOMATIC IMPLANTABLE CARDIOVERTER DEFIBRILLATOR PATCH PLACEMENT. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 60 year old white female , status post large anterior myocardial infarction complicated by ventricular tachycardia , ventricular fibrillation arrest and aneurysm , admitted for surgical repair and AICD ( automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator ) placement. 
The patient's cardiac risk factors included hypertension , increased cholesterol , adult-onset diabetes mellitus , positive family history , positive previous myocardial infarction. 
Her cardiac course was notable for a large anterior myocardial infarction on 2 of November .  
The patient received recombinant tissue plasminogen activator and underwent emergent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. 
A left ventriculogram showed anterior septal dyskinesis and ejection fraction was approximately 20%. 
The patient had postoperative tamponade requiring pericardiocentesis. 
On 2 of November , the patient suffered worsening congestive heart failure , tachyarrhythmia and required emergent cardioversion and subsequent medical therapy. 
She had recurrent ventricular tachycardia treated with Lidocaine. 
In 17 of March , electrophysiologic studies were performed and the patient was started on Amiodarone. 
The patient also underwent transplant evaluation with cardiac catheterization showing occluded left anterior descending coronary artery at S1 , right dominant system , marked left ventricular dilatation with anterior septal dilatation and ejection fraction 18%. 
Right atrial pressures were 60/12/11 , right ventricular pressures 56/14 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 34 , cardiac index 31. 
An echocardiogram showed left atrium 4.9 centimeters , left ventricle with normal wall thickness , plus thrombus and mild pericardial effusion , anterior septal akinesis , hypokinetic left ventricle , 1+ tricuspid regurgitation , 2+ mitral regurgitation. 
The patient was admitted at this time for aneurysm repair. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY revealed coronary artery disease as above , hiatal hernia , adult-onset diabetes mellitus , hypertension , status post total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , status post appendectomy , status post cholecystectomy. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION included Micronase 5 milligrams by mouth each day , Amiodarone 200 milligrams by mouth each day , captopril 37.5 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day , Coumadin 2 milligrams by mouth each day. 
ALLERGIES were to Halcion , which causes hallucinations. 
SOCIAL HISTORY revealed the patient is married with 5 children , 7 grandchildren. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , the patient was a pleasant , middle-aged , white female in no acute distress. 
The patient was afebrile , blood pressure 98/60 , temperature 98 , respiratory rate 24 , oxygen saturation on room air was 92%. 
Skin was without lesions. 
Head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination was within normal limits. 
Neck was supple without lymphadenopathy , carotids 2+ without bruits , no jugular venous distention. 
Chest examination was significant for rales about 1/3 of the way up from the bases. 
Cardiac examination revealed S1 and S2 , positive S3 , II/VI systolic murmur was heard at the left upper sternal border radiating to the apex. 
Abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , no organomegaly. 
Extremities revealed 2+ pitting edema. 
Neurologic examination was nonfocal. 
Rectal examination revealed normal tone , guaiac negative stool. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Chest x-ray on admission revealed cardiomegaly , left pleural effusion versus scarring , mild pulmonary vascular redistribution. 
The electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm at 85 , left atrial enlargement , low voltages , no change compared to old study of previous admission. 
Other laboratory data on admission was unremarkable. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted on 10 of March , to the Surgery Service and the procedure was performed on 29 of January .  
Please see the operation note for description of the aneurysmectomy and AICD patch placement. 
The patient was managed postoperatively on the Surgical Service without complications , and transferred to the Medical Service 2 days prior to discharge. 
On the Medical Service , treatment included removal of the patient's chest tube , removal of her pacing wires , and captopril was increased to a final dose of 37.5 milligrams. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE included Coumadin 2 milligrams by mouth each day , Bactrim-Double-Strength 1 by mouth twice a day times 6 days , Amiodarone 200 milligrams by mouth each day , Micronase 5 milligrams by mouth each day , captopril 37.5 milligrams by mouth 3 times a day. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE was stable. 
The patient was to FOLLOW-UP with Dr. Sheryl Goldkamp in 4 weeks , and with Dr. Isabelle E. J Colasamte . 
The patient was to have her prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time checked at her local Coumadin Clinic. 
ZC844/3152 CARLTON J. ABSHEAR , M.D. RM7 D: 5/26/92 Batch: 4915 Report: U6806Y12 T: 9/13/92 Dictated By: WENDI B. NEWAND , M.D.