348349961 | PUO | 20253314 | | 257943 | 6/15/1998 12:00:00 AM | DEHYDRATION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/10/1998 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 10/21/1998 FINAL DIAGNOSIS: ( 1 ) CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE ( 2 ) HYPERTENSION ( 3 ) OBESITY ( 4 ) DIABETES , INSULIN REQUIRING ( 5 ) DEPRESSION ( 6 ) GOUT ( 7 ) CHRONIC HEARING LOSS ( 8 ) HISTORY OF CHOLECYSTECTOMY AND APPENDECTOMY HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 65 year old woman with insulin requiring diabetes mellitus , hypertension , and known coronary artery disease who presented on the day of admission after having a fall at home. 
She was noted in the emergency room to have new ECG changes. 
The patient was recently catheterized in October of 1998 at which time she was found to have a 100% left anterior descending artery lesion , a 100% right coronary artery lesion , and a 40% obtuse marginal 1 lesion. 
Her left anterior descending artery and right coronary artery territories were being served by collaterals and the decision was made to manage her medically on enteric coated aspirin , Atenolol 50 mg q.d. , Lisinopril 30 mg q.d. , and Pravacid at 20 mg q.d. 
Her Bumex dose was recently increased from 1 to 2 q.d. on 1/12/98 . 
She was recently admitted from 11/7/98 to 8/10/98  for increasing shortness of breath and some chest pain and had catheterization with results as described above. 
She was discharged to home on an increase in her medical regimen. 
Her last echocardiogram was done in February of 1997 and this showed a moderately dilated left ventricle with septal akinesis , inferior hypokinesis , and an ejection fraction of 35%. 
Her right ventricular size and function were normal. 
There was mild left atrial enlargement , mild mitral regurgitation , mild tricuspid regurgitation , and trivial aortic insufficiency. 
Since discharge she has been followed in Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of by Dr. Mccullen , as well as by Dr. Abshear of cardiology. 
Her Bumex dose as described above was increased on 1/12/98 because of fluid overload. 
Of note , she has had very poor glycemic control over the two months prior to admission with blood sugars in the 300 to 400 range. 
Her last A1C was 12.3 on 1/12/98 . 
It had been 6.0 on 9/20/97 . 
On the day of admission after standing up to get her insulin , she felt lightheaded and fell backwards , landing on her coccyx into a chair but the chair fell backwards and so she fell backwards as well. 
She reported that for two or three days prior to admission she had been having some lightheadedness. 
She denied any visual changes or weakness , loss of consciousness or head injury. 
She denied any seizure or seizure history or loss of urine. 
She was unable to get up and called for help and an ambulance brought her to the emergency room department. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: She reported occasional diarrhea and constipation. 
She had no fever or chills. 
No cough. 
No urinary symptoms. 
She also denied any dietary indiscretion or non-compliance with her insulin. 
She reports that she has chest pain approximately two times per week but denied having any chest pain on the day of admission. 
MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.d. , Atenolol 50 mg q.d. , Isordil 20 mg t.i.d. , Lisinopril 30 mg q.d. , Bumex 2 mg q.d. since 1/12/98 , Pravastatin 20 mg q.d. , Omeprazole 20 mg q.d. , insulin NPH 75 q.a.m. and 35 q.p.m. , regular 25 q.a.m. and 15 q.p.m. , Trazadone 100 mg qhs p.r.n. , Allegra 60 mg b.i.d. , Proventil 2 b.i.d. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease as noted above. 
Hypertension. 
Obesity. 
Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. 
Depression. 
Gout. 
Chronic hearing loss requiring hearing aids bilaterally. 
History of cholecystectomy and appendectomy in past. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone and has a visiting nurse. 
She use to work in housekeeping at the Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital .  
She has a remote history of smoking but does not drink any alcohol. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She is an obese woman in no acute distress. 
Temperature 98.3 degrees , pulse 95 , blood pressure 109/63. 
Her room air saturation was 95%. 
She was not orthostatic. 
HEENT: Unremarkable. 
Jugular venous distension difficult to assess because of her habitus. 
Heart: Regular rate and rhythm. 
S1 and S2 distant. 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
Lungs clear with exception of question of some rales at bases. 
This was also difficult to assess due to poor inspiratory effort. 
Abdomen: Benign. 
Extremities: 1+ edema at feet only. 
Neurologic: Nonfocal. 
The patient was an appropriate historian but had difficulty hearing some of the questions. 
LABORATORY DATA: Normal set of electrolytes with BUN 58 , creatinine 2.4. 
Blood sugar 435. 
Anion gap 16. 
Arterial blood gas on room air: pH 7.4 , pCO2 40 , pO2 69 , oxygen saturation 94%. 
The first CK done in the emergency room department was 194. 
An ACE test was positive but beta hydroxybutyrate was negative with triponin of 0. WBC 7 , hematocrit 37 , platelet count 167. 
Coagulase was within normal limits. 
Urinalysis was remarkable for 3+ glucose with no ketones , 1+ esterace , negative nitrite , 20 to 25 white blood cells , 2 to 3 red blood cells , 2+ bacteria , and 1+ yeast. 
Urine culture was sent and came back negative. 
ECG was normal sinus rhythm at rate of 92 with intervals of 0.15 , 0.1 , and 0.324 , an axis of 32 , and left atrial enlargement. 
There were new T-wave inversions in leads 1 and L with biphasic T-waves in V4 through V6 compared with her ECG of 4/13/97 . 
ASSESSMENT: In short , this is a 65 year old woman with known two vessel coronary artery disease , hypertension , and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus under poor glycemic control recently , now presenting with hyperglycemia , dehydration , and new ECG changes suggestive of lateral ischemia. 
She was admitted for rule out of myocardial infarction and monitoring. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Cardiovascular: The patient was admitted and placed on a cardiac monitor. 
She ruled out for myocardial infarction by enzymes and her ECG continued to show new lateral T-wave changes. 
There was no evolution or change in these throughout the course of the admission. 
On 10/22/98 the patient underwent a Dobutamine MIBI study after discussion with her primary care physician and cardiologist , Dr. Abshear , who felt that this would be a helpful study , given her difficult history and known underlying coronary artery disease. 
The results of the Dobutamine study were that she had no ECG changes and the MIBI images showed lateral and inferior infarcts but no active ischemia. 
Over the course of the first couple of days of the admission , the patient's blood pressure was noted to be lower than her usual baseline. 
Her diuretics were held with the thought that her elevated creatinine , lightheadedness , and general malaise were probably due to dehydration , given that her Bumex dose had recently been increased. 
She was gently hydrated with a total of about 3 liters and her blood pressure increased somewhat. 
A follow-up chest x-ray was done which did not show any evidence of congestive heart failure. 
The patient had no other active cardiac issues during this admission. 
Renal: At the time of the admission the patient's creatinine was 2.5. 
It subsequently bumped to a maximum of 2.9 in the setting of her dehydration. 
Her blood pressure medications were held and she was gently rehydrated. 
With this treatment , her creatinine returned to its baseline of approximately 1.5 to 1.6. 
At the time of admission there was some question as to whether she might have a urinary tract infection given her urinalysis; however , a urine culture came back negative. 
The white blood cells in her urine on admission were not present on a subsequent specimen which was obtained by straight catheterization and the thought was that the initial pyuria was probably related to vaginal candidiasis. 
Pulmonary: Over the course of the first three or four days of admission , the patient developed a somewhat increasing oxygen requirement for unclear reasons. 
Her need for oxygen waxed and waned but , because of her habitus and her general complaints of dyspnea over the last several months , there was some concern that she may be having chronic pulmonary embolus. 
For this reason she was taken to VQ scan on 1/18/98 . 
This study was read as low probability. 
She was transiently anticoagulated while awaiting the results of the scan but the heparin was subsequently discontinued. 
The reasons for her increase in oxygen requirement during the course of this admission remained somewhat unclear. 
It is possible that she has sleep apnea given her body habitus and this would warrant follow-up as an outpatient. 
Her oxygen saturation at the time of discharge is approximately 92% on room air. 
Endocrine: At the time of admission the patient had blood sugars in the range of 400 to 500. 
Her insulin doses were increased in order to obtain better glycemic control. 
The reason for her sudden increase in insulin needs remains elusive. 
Orthopedics: At the time of the admission the patient had a set of lumbosacral spine films done in order to rule out injuries related to her fall. 
The films were read as showing a potential subtle fracture of the coccyx. 
The patient had a significant amount of pain in this area over the course of admission and it was thought likely that she did , indeed , have a fracture. 
She has been working with physical therapy in order to increase her mobility. 
Gastrointestinal: The patient had been complaining over this admission of some burning in her esophagus , as well as some epigastric tenderness. 
It seems from review of her records that this has been a chronic problem. 
She was started on Cisapride for presumptive element of diabetic gastroparesis , in addition to being maintained on her Prilosec. 
Of note , she had recently undergone endoscopy and been diagnosed with a question of Helicobacter pylori infection which has now been treated. 
However , her symptoms continue. 
In addition , she had recently had a barium study in April of 1996 that showed no abnormalities. 
It was decided that this study did not warrant repeating at this point. 
Neurologic: On several occasions during this admission the patient became acutely confused. 
At these times she was not noted to have a focal neurological examination. 
These instances appeared questionably related to dosing of her Compazine and also all seemed to occur in the evening. 
It was thought that she was probably sundowning and , during her clearer moments , she reported having similar problems at home. 
Infectious disease: The patient began having some low grade fevers on approximately hospital day #4. Blood and urine cultures at that time were negative. 
Because of the low grade fevers and her decreased oxygen saturation intermittently , chest x-ray and VQ scan were done. 
The VQ scan was read as low probability. 
The chest x-ray was read as having some atelectasis in the left lower lobe. 
There was a question of whether this was atelectasis versus an infiltrate. 
However , since the patient remained with a normal WBC and no purulent sputum , it was thought unlikely that she had pneumonia. 
She also reported having some congestion and it was thought that she might be having low grade fevers from a upper respiratory infection. 
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Albuterol inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. , Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.d. , Atenolol 25 mg q.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , NPH insulin 95 q.a.m. and 45 q.p.m. , sliding scale insulin q.ac. 
and qhs , regular insulin 30 q.a.m. and 20 q.p.m. , Atrovent inhaler 2 puffs q.i.d. , Isordil 10 mg t.i.d.- hold for systolic blood pressure less than 100 , Lisinopril 30 mg p.o. q.d.- hold for systolic blood pressure less than 100 , Prilosec 20 mg q.d. , Cisapride 10 mg q.i.d. , Pravastatin 20 mg qhs , Allegra 60 mg b.i.d. 
The patient is discharged to rehabilitation because of her difficulty with walking. 
FOLLOWUP: She will follow-up in clinic with her cardiologist , Dr. Abshear , and with her primary care physician , Dr. Hisako Mciver . 
Dictated By: KATIA POPPELL , M.D. MA60 Attending: GENNY BARRETTE , M.D. DB07  MR006/8163 Batch: 6397 Index No. AKKUBM13TK D: 8/10/98 T: 8/10/98