076954946 | PUO | 61732093 | | 815438 | 2/30/1999 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/30/1999 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 5/18/1999 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 66 year-old male with known coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction who presented with new onset of dyspnea on exertion. 
The cardiac catheterization revealed three vessel disease and the patient presented for coronary artery bypass grafting. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension , diabetes mellitus , gastroesophageal reflux disease , peripheral vascular disease , and peripheral neuropathy. 
No strictures and no bleeding. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Lasix 40 mg b.i.d. , Norvasc 10 mg q day , Imdur 30 mg q day , Aldactone 25 mg q day , Atenolol 75 mg q day , ranitidine 150 mg b.i.d. , Zocor 40 mg q day , insulin 26 units of NPH in the morning , 14 of regular insulin in the morning , 26 of NPH in the evening and 14 of regular in the evening. 
TESTS/STUDIES: Cardiac catheterization showed left anterior descending coronary artery with 100 percent stenosis , left circumflex at the origin with 50 percent stenosis , obtuse marginal 100 percent , obtuse marginal two 90 percent , obtuse marginal three diffuse disease , right coronary artery proximal 30-40 percent , mid 90 percent , ramus 100 percent. 
Ejection fraction on echocardiogram was 35 percent , severe apical hypokinesis and lateral hypokinesis , inferior diskinesis , trace mitral regurgitation , mild tricuspid regurgitation. 
Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm with anterior infarct. 
BUN and creatinine was 1.9 and 1.6. 
PHYSICAL EXAM: The patient was awake , alert and oriented times three. 
Good oral hygiene. 
No carotid bruits. 
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. 
No murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
CHEST: Clear to auscultation to the bases. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender and nondistended , normal active bowel sounds. 
Dopplerable dorsalis pedis pulses. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was informed consented of all the risks and benefits of the procedure and the patient was adequate prepared preoperative before the actual surgery. 
For more details of the actual surgery please refer to Dr. Marcott ' operative note on 5/15/99 . 
Immediately postoperatively the patient was taken to the cardiac surgery intensive care unit where he was admitted without difficulty. 
The patient woke up appropriately and was extubated. 
The patient had cardiac index of 2.3 , was kept on Neoral and epinephrine for pressor support. 
The patient was advancing his diet as tolerated after extubation and was making adequate urine output. 
The patient was tolerating wean from epinephrine on postoperative day number one. 
The patient received consultation from the electrophysiology service , as it appeared that the patient had a transient block at the level of the AV-node. 
The patient continued to be followed in the cardiac surgery intensive care unit and an echocardiogram was done that showed a 30 percent ejection fraction and global hypokinesis. 
The patient had a nonfocal neurological exam. 
The patient was weaning down on dopamine and Neoral however still continued to need this drip. 
The patient also had a Lasix drip of 10 per hour. 
The patient was breathing well on the face mask. 
The patient was kept NPO at this time as he was not able to tolerate p.o. intake without nausea. 
The patient continued to have an elevated creatinine of 1.7 , down from 1.9 earlier and a hematocrit of 32.8 with no signs of bleeding. 
The patient continue to have Ancef for chest tube coverage. 
The patient was again seen by the electrophysiology service for possible change in his rhythm. 
The rhythm was Wenckebach and the patient was evaluated for a possible pacemaker. 
On postoperative day number three the patient was hemodynamically stable weaning of of Neoral but still on Dopamine and still requiring a Lasix drip at 10 per hour. 
The patient was still in Wenckebach and the patient continued to breathe well however remained at 70%. 
The patient remained NPO as his respiratory needs took precidence over his eating and the risk of aspiration was high. 
The patient continued to make good urine output however was dependent on the Lasix. 
Chest tubes were discontinued on this day. 
The patient was re-evaluated by the electrophysiology service again. 
On postoperative day number four the patient received a pacemaker and Lasix was discontinued on postoperative day number four. 
The pacemaker was placed by Dr. Dominguez . 
For more details of this surgery please refer to his operative note. 
A Medtronic lead was placed. 
On postoperative day number five the patient continued to do extremely well. 
The patient was AV-paced on the pacemaker at a rate of 80 with a good blood pressure of 155/70. 
He weaned down off of all of his drips and pressure support. 
The patient was able to come down to four liters and was able to advance on his diet. 
The patient made good urine output with only p.o. Lasix and the Lasix drip was discontinued. 
The patient was continued on Kefzol for perioperative AICD placement and transfer to the floor. 
On postoperative day six and seven the patient continued to do extremely well with no change in his management. 
The patient continued on his Lasix , Lopressor and aspirin and Keflex. 
An echocardiogram was done that showed an ejection fraction of 30-40 percent. 
There was no change in his management. 
The patient continued to do well advancing in all areas. 
No instability of his heart. 
He advanced to a full house diet making good urine output with minimal use of Lasix. 
The patient was therefore discharged without complications and with placement of the pacemaker on 2/8/99 . 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q day , Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lasix 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , NPH Humulin insulin 20 units subcutaneously q a.m. , insulin 10 units regular at night , 7 units of regular twice a day , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q 4h p.r.n. pain , Zantac 150 mg p.o. twice a day , Coumadin to check with the Coumadin clinic for strict follow up , potassium slow release 10 mEq p.o. q day and Zocor 40 mg q night. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient will be discharged to home with home services to follow up strictly on his Coumadin dosing. 
The patient is also to follow up with Dr. Desirae Marcott in 2-4 weeks and cardiology in one week in the Coumadin clinic on the next day. 
Dictated By: CANDY RILLER , M.D. SR62 Attending: DESIRAE R. MARCOTT , M.D. PW1  HS266/9112 Batch: 73695 Index No. M2ID0F49RP D: 4/14/99 T: 6/26/99