747683306 | PUO | 99239194 | | 115537 | 11/27/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/25/1994 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 6/22/1994 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: ATRIAL FIBRILLATION. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES INCLUDE: 1. ASTHMA. 2. MORBID OBESITY. 
3. ALCOHOL ABUSE. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Kundla is a 50 year old woman with a long history of asthma who presented with shortness of breath and palpitations. 
Her asthma is characterized by multiple short admissions for flares , last in October 1993 , and multiple courses of steroid tapers. 
At home , she uses Ventolin and Theophylline. 
Her other medical problems include morbid obesity and a history of alcohol abuse. 
She has had palpitations in the past and a Holter in 4/19 showed only three episodes of supraventricular tachycardia. 
She has also had a stress test in February 1992 which was a nine minute arm cycle stress test with maximal heart rate of 128 and systolic blood pressure of 120. 
The test was negative for ischemic changes. 
She has never had an EKG showing atrial fibrillation. 
She came into the Emergency Ward on 8/22/94 complaining of two weeks of intermittent palpitations as well as shortness of breath. 
She used increased doses of her Ventolin inhaler for this and continued on her Theophylline. 
She felt her heart fluttering quite a bit and intermittently , these palpitations would go away. 
She never took her heart rate during these episodes nor could she characterize her heart as being irregular. 
Prior to the palpitations beginning , she had gone on a drinking binge and had drank a half a pint of brandy. 
She has had a cough productive of whitish sputum but no change in the sputum character chronically. 
Her asthma has been slightly increasing with increased wheezing and she has been using her inhaler more. 
In the Emergency Ward , her EKG showed atrial fibrillation with a heart rate in the 130 range. 
She was controlled with intravenous Diltiazem and admitted for new onset atrial fibrillation. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As above and also including degenerative joint disease of the knees and ankles. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Slo-phyllin and Ventolin Inhaler. 
ALLERGIES: She had no known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives with her two children , has used alcohol in binges , and does not smoke. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was a morbidly obese black female in no acute distress. 
Her temperature was 98.2 , heart rate 108 , blood pressure 110/68 , and O2 saturations 96% on two liters. 
HEAD/NECK: Examinations were negative , her jugular venous pressure was not visible secondary to obesity , and her carotids were 1+ bilaterally. 
LUNGS: Showed scant wheezing at the left base otherwise were clear. 
CARDIAC: Examination was irregularly irregular , she had distant S1 and S2 , and no murmurs. 
ABDOMEN: Obese , soft , non-tender , and no organomegaly. 
EXTREMITIES: Without definite edema. 
RECTAL: Examination was OB negative with decreased tone. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Examination was essentially non-focal. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Notable on admission were a theophylline level of 23.6 which was elevated , an SMA 7 which was within normal limits with the exception of a potassium of 3.8 , BUN and creatinine of 5 and 0.9 , and CBC showed a white count of 6.1 , hematocrit 40.8 , and platelets of 288. 
An EKG showed atrial fibrillation at 136 with low voltage and poor R wave progression. 
Chest X-Ray showed no infiltrates or effusions. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Medical Service. 
Her rate was controlled with intravenous Diltiazem drip which was changed over to 90 mg p.o. q.d. 
In addition , she was started on Digoxin and her rate was controlled to the seventies and eighties. 
She was also heparinized and coumadinized and an ACE consultation was obtained given her history of alcohol abuse. 
She was not interested in further out-patient care for this matter but has the number and will call if she desires it. 
Also , a Nutrition consultation was obtained given her obesity and she will follow-up with them as an out-patient. 
DISPOSITION: She is followed in KTDUOO Clinic by Dr. Tomeka Haugland and he will see her as an out-patient in one week at which time he will schedule her an admission for elective cardioversion after she has been anti-coagulated for at least three weeks. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d. , Diltiazem SR 180 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Beclovent Inhaler two puffs inhaled q.i.d. , Atrovent Inhaler two puffs inhaled q.i.d. , and Nitroglycerin sublingually p.r.n. 
Dictated By: DEANDRA L. GILFOY , M.D. HC88 Attending: BRITTANEY N. HAMBLET , M.D. QX8  WS652/7514 Batch: 2721 Index No. KITK2U7M4G D: 11/11/94 T: 3/2/94