344979897 | PUO | 56655452 | | 0059078 | 11/12/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/1/2005 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: ATTENDING: STUKOWSKI , JANAY MD INTERIM DISCHARGE SUMMARY This is a dictation of the patient's Cardiac ICU stay in Ropines Fre Delp This is an interim dictation covering postoperative days #1-#10. 
Date of admission 6/11/05 . 
Date of discharge from the Cardiac ICU 11/4/05 . 
The remainder will be dictated by the PA on the floor prior to patient's discharge to home including discharge medications and additional hospital course. 
SERVICE: Cardiac Surgery Service. 
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Coronary artery disease , three-vessel. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Three-vessel coronary artery disease status post CABG x4. OPERATIONS: On 10/2/05 , CABG x4 , sequential graft , SVG1 ( aorta to OM1 and OM2 , LIMA to LAD , SVG to PDA ). 
OTHER PROCEDURES NOT IN THE OPERATING ROOM: Video swallow on 6/17/05 . 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 68-year-old male with a history of non-insulin dependent diabetes , hypertension , atrial fibrillation , status post cardioversion ( on oral amiodarone since 11/13 ) , nephrolithiasis , lung cancer status post XRT , and right lower lobectomy in 1996 , presenting with six-month history of exertional chest pain when climbing greater than one flight of stairs or walking up hills , relieved with 30 seconds to 1 minute of rest. 
The patient describes pain as "burning , " pain in left chest , nonradiating , not associated with nausea , vomiting , or diaphoresis. 
He denies rest pain. 
The pain has not been accelerating or progressive in nature. 
The patient had a positive exercise tolerance test at A Triaded Health , limited by reduced exercise tolerance and shortness of breath ( blood pressure elevated , no EKG changes ) , so went on to have MIBI on 6/18/05 showing moderate size defect in inferolateral and inferobasal segments with near complete reversibility , normal LV ejection fraction of 70% , no regional wall motion abnormalities. 
Cardiac catheterization done on 6/11/05 , at PUO showed three-vessel coronary artery disease with occluded RCA , focal severe proximal LAD stenosis , and significant disease of OM1 and OM2. 
He presents for a CABG. 
PREOPERATIVE CARDIAC STATUS: Elective. 
The patient presented with critical coronary anatomy. 
The patient has a history of class II angina ( slight limitation of coronary activity ). 
There has been no recent angina. 
The patient does not have symptomatic heart failure. 
The patient is in first-degree AV block. 
The patient has a history of AF/flutter treated with amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily after cardioversion in 1997. 
PREVIOUS CARDIOVASCULAR INTERVENTIONS: None. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension , diabetes; on oral agents , hypothyroidism , hypercholesterolemia , COPD; on bronchodilator therapy , chest radiation to right lung , nephrolithiasis , childhood polio , atrial fibrillation status post cardioversion ( on amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily since 11/13 ) , lung cancer status post XRT , and right lower lobe lobectomy in 1996 , mild peripheral neuropathy ( diabetic ) , diabetic retinopathy , cataracts , colonic polyps , hypothyroidism , CAD , angina , asthma , and radiation bronchiectasis. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Status bronchoscopy , right thoracotomy , right lower lobe lobectomy with radical lymph node dissection on 10/15/96 , status post bronchoscopy and cervical mediastinoscopy 10/1/96 , status post attempted extraction of kidney stones with left flank incision in 1960. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: History of tobacco use , 100-pack-year cigarette smoking history , history of occasional alcohol use. 
The patient is retired manager for Y Mont and drives rental cars now. 
ALLERGIES: Sulfa , unknown reaction. 
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , amlodipine 5 mg p.o. daily , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. daily , amiodarone 200 mg p.o. daily , isosorbide 60 mg p.o. daily , aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. daily , albuterol two puffs q.i.d. , fluticasone two puffs b.i.d. , Lipitor 20 mg p.o. daily , Avapro 150 mg p.o. daily , Levoxyl 112 mcg p.o. daily , glyburide one-quarter tablet of 5 mg tablet p.o. daily. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATON: Height and Weight: 5 feet 9 inches , 69.1 kg. 
Vital Signs: Temperature 96.9 , heart rate 62 , blood pressure on the right 145/82 and on the left 142/79 , satting 95% on room air. 
HEENT: Pupils are equal and reactive , dentition without evidence of infection. 
No carotid bruits. 
Chest: Right thoracotomy incision , well healed. 
Cardiovascular: Right: Regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs. 
Allen's test , left upper extremity normal , right upper extremity normal. 
Pulses , 2+ carotid , radial , femoral , dorsalis pedis , posterior tibials bilaterally. 
Respiratory: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Prolonged expiration , scattered mild rhonchi , diffusely on the left , decreased breath sounds , right base. 
Abdomen: Well-healed left flank incision , soft , no masses. 
Extremities: With scarring , varicosities , or edema. 
Neuro: Alert and oriented. 
PREOPERATIVE LABS: Notable for creatinine of 1.3 , hematocrit of 37.2 , and platelets 257 , 000. 
Cardiac catheterization data , 6/11/05 , 70% proximal LAD lesion , 100% mid OM1 lesion , 70% ostial OM2 lesion , 100% ostial RCA lesion , 70% distal RCA lesion , right dominant circulation , collateral flow , SEP2 to right PDA , collateral flow OM1 to OM1 , normal left circumflex , LEVF of 70% with no regional wall motion abnormalities , no renal artery stenosis. 
Ventriculogram , 70% ejection fraction. 
EKG: First-degree AV block at 55 , inverted Ts in AVR , first-degree AV block in postcatheterization EKG. 
Chest x-ray on 6/11/05 with evidence of prior right lobe lobectomy. 
Lungs are clear no effusions. 
Trachea is slightly deviated to the right. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS AND HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted on 6/11/05 following cardiac catheterization showing three-vessel coronary artery disease with occluded RCA , focal severe proximal LAD stenosis , significant disease of OM1 and OM2. 
He was assessed preoperatively for coronary artery bypass surgery. 
He was taken to the operating room on 10/2/05 where he underwent CABG x4 with the sequential graft with saphenous vein graft , one connecting the aorta to OM1 then OM2 , LIMA to LAD , saphenous graft 2 to PDA. 
The patient was then bypassed for 108 minutes. 
He left the operating room with one ventricular wire , two pericardial tubes ( Blake drains ) , and one left pleural tube ( Blake drain ). 
For further details , please see the dictated operative note. 
The patient was taken to the cardiac surgery ICU on Ve following surgery. 
ICU COURSE BY SYSTEM: Neuro: The patient was alert and oriented x3 throughout his ICU stay. 
Following extubation , the patient had marginal respiratory status , so pain control was accomplished with IV Dilaudid. 
The patient had a history of chronic renal insufficiency , so Toradol was avoided. 
When the patient was taking p.o.'s , Dilaudid was changed to p.o. Dilaudid. 
Pain control was good with oral Dilaudid throughout his ICU stay. 
Cardiovascular: The patient was in normal sinus rhythm on postoperative day #1 through #3. 
However , the patient flipped into atrial fibrillation in the 110s to 120s at 0100 on postoperative day #3. 
He was started initially on his home dose of 200 mg p.o. daily of amiodarone. 
However , later on postoperative day #3 , this was changed to an amiodarone drip. 
The patient was continued on amiodarone drip at 1 for six hours and later decreased to 0.5 of amiodarone drip. 
Amiodarone drip continued from postoperative day #4 to #5. 
The patient remained in atrial fibrillation , so on postoperative day #3 at 1:00 a.m. to postoperative day #6 , when he converted to sinus rhythm at 0500. 
The patient was transitioned to 200 mg p.o. daily of amiodarone , which she was continued on at home after receiving one full day of 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. amiodarone. 
He was transferred out of the unit on 200 mg p.o. daily of amiodarone. 
The patient was started on 50 mg p.o. q.i.d. of Lopressor. 
Since postoperative day #6 , the patient has remained in rate controlled sinus rhythm without any episodes of atrial fibrillation. 
The patient is also on aspirin and Zocor. 
Respiratory: The patient is status post right lower lobectomy in 1996 for lung cancer and has a 100-year smoking history. 
His respiratory status was marginal following extubation at 0400 on postoperative day #1. 
The patient remained on 100% high flow oxygen from postoperative day #2 to #4. 
The patient required q.2h. 
nasotracheal suctioning and q.1h. 
chest PT in order to keep him from being re-intubated. 
From postoperative day #2 to #4 , on chest x-ray , the patient's right middle lobe appeared to be collapsed. 
There was a question of atelectasis versus pneumonia. 
The patient was started on levofloxacin on 9/30/05 on postoperative day #2 , for questionable right middle lobe pneumonia , as lobe is collapsed and the patient had extremely thick secretions. 
The patient was continued on aggressive chest PT and pulmonary toilet. 
He had a strong cough and was able to cough up thick secretions on his own. 
The patient was unable on postoperative day #2 to #3 to remove mask without desats into the 70s to 80s. 
He was started on his nebulizers around the clock on Atrovent and mucomyst nebs , as well as his home inhalers of fluticasone and albuterol. 
The patient appeared to be tiring early in the morning on postoperative day #3 and Anesthesia was called for an evaluation but the patient continued to struggle along on 100% oxygen for two more days between BiPAP and 100% high flow oxygen. 
With BiPAP , patient's pO2 on his gas was improved. 
ABGs continued improved as the patient was able to mobilize more. 
The patient is diuresed with the Lasix drip with improvement in his respiratory status as well. 
The goal is to keep patient 1 liter negative in order to improve his pulmonary status. 
The patient had an episode on postoperative day #3 of 20-second loss of consciousness while getting nasotracheal suction around 2300 on 8/28/05 . 
This was initially thought to be hypoxic in origin. 
However , the patient had two further episodes with strong cough on postoperative day #5 and #6 of 20 to 30-second losses of consciousness with no signs of a vagal origin on cardiac monitor. 
By postoperative day #5 to #6 , the patient's respiratory status had improved. 
Diuresis was continued. 
The patient was given a dedicated triple-lumen catheter with a dedicated TPN line on 8/20/05 , postoperative day #4 , as it was unclear whether the patient would turn the corner and avoid intubation , and the patient was also without nutrition for several days at this point. 
The patient continued to improve in terms of his respiratory status with diuresis. 
By postoperative day #6 , the patient's right middle lobe appeared to be re-expanding on chest x-ray. 
It continued to be re-expanded from postoperative day #6 to #10 on transfer from the unit on 11/4/05 . 
The patient is continued on t.i.d. 
Lasix after his drip was turned off on 10/22/05 . 
Goal was to keep the patient negative in order to maximize his pulmonary status. 
The patient has marginal pulmonary reserve. 
The patient also continues on levofloxacin for a total of an 11-day course for prophylaxis against pneumonia. 
GI: The patient is on a minced diet on transfer from the unit. 
The patient was evaluated by Speech and Swallow. 
On postoperative day #5 , 6/17/05 , a bedside evaluation was performed and a video swallow was done. 
The patient at this time was cleared for puree and thin liquids with a chin tuck. 
This was changed to a minced diet on postoperative day #8 , as the patient was thought to find this more palatable. 
The patient was started on Nexium following extubation. 
TPN was started through a dedicated port after a line change on postoperative day #4. 
This was done , so the patient could continue getting nutrition despite his marginal respiratory status. 
TPN was still continued on discharge from the unit on 11/4/05 , as the patient had been having calorie counts performed by nursing in order to make sure that the patient was taking in adequate nutrition prior to discontinuation of TPN. 
The patient continues to be in aspiration risk , as he has very poor pulmonary status at baseline. 
Continue calorie counts on discharge from the unit and Nutrition will recommend stopping TPN when the patient is taking enough in calories orally. 
Renal: The patient's baseline creatinine was 1.3. 
His creatinine has been stable around the 1.6 to 1.8 , postop following diuresis with Lasix. 
The patient was started on a Lasix drip on postoperative day #1 in order to gently diurese him. 
He was continued on a Lasix drip until postoperative day #9 with adjustments to keep him negative and per chest x-ray every morning. 
The patient was transitioned to 20 mg IV t.i.d. 
Lasix on 10/22/05 , on postoperative day #9. 
This was increased on postoperative day #10 , 11/4/05 , to 40 mg IV t.i.d. prior to transfer from the unit , as the patient looked wet on chest x-ray. 
The patient's right middle lobe appeared re-expanded on postoperative day #6 to #10. 
This is critical for patient's pulmonary reserve. 
Goal will be to keep the patient negative in terms of his fluid balance in order to maximize his pulmonary status. 
His creatinine has continued to remain stable. 
The patient is urinating well and responds well to Lasix. 
Endocrine: The patient was initially placed on a Portland protocol and transitioned after postoperative day #3 to NovoLog sliding scales with meals. 
At the time of transfer from the ICU , he continues on glipizide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. and then NovoLog sliding scale with meals and nightly. 
He is also on NovoLog 8 units subcu with meals. 
This will be continued on transfer. 
Sugar control has been good with these agents. 
The patient remains on Levoxyl 112 mcg p.o. daily for his hypothyroidism. 
Heme: The patient was started on aspirin on postoperative day #0 through his orogastric tube. 
This was continued on postoperative with ECASA 325 mg p.o. daily , the patient's hematocrit and platelets have been postop requiring no transfusions. 
ID: The patient was started on levofloxacin on 9/30/05 , postoperative day #2 , for question of pneumonia with right middle lobe collapse versus pneumonia on chest x-ray. 
This was continued for a total of 11 days. 
The patient self medicates with levofloxacin at home for bronchiectasis and chronic bronchitis when his secretions become thick and troublesome. 
eScription document: 5-4456674 EMSFocus transcriptionists Dictated By: CISTRUNK , EDGARDO Attending: STUKOWSKI , JANAY Dictation ID 6534084 D: 8/29/05 T: 8/29/05