579817978 | PUO | 25198085 | | 804794 | 1/29/2002 12:00:00 AM | VULVAR ABSCESS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/24/2002 Report Status: Signed 

Discharge Date: 5/3/2002 ADMISSION DIAGNOSES: VULVAR ABSCESS , DIABETES. 
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: VULVAR ABSCESS , DIABETES , CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE , LEFT VENTRICULAR SYSTOLIC FUNCTION. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 47-year-old obese woman with a long history of poorly controlled IDDM , and recurrent abscesses. 
She presents with one week of left groin pain and enlarging palpable mass. 
She first noticed a tender bump six days prior to admission and was seen in GYN clinic three days prior to admission at which time she was afebrile with a white count of 10.6 and was prescribed a ten-day course of Levaquin. 
Her symptoms persisted and she had the onset of chills so she returned to the GYN clinic the day of admission , was afebrile with a 5 x 3 cm vulvar mass and the finger stick of 390. 
She was admitted to the I Warho Hospital for IV antibiotics and diabetic control with the plan for I&amp;D by GYN. 
PAST MEDICAL/SURGICAL HISTORY: Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus diagnosed in 1987 , bilateral peripheral neuropathy , depression with recently discontinued Paxil , history of asthma , no current medications , no recent flares or intubations , hemorrhoids , status post I&amp;D for left thigh and buttock abscesses , status post TAH-LSO , status post surgery for ectopic pregnancy , status post RSO for ovarian abscess , status post excision of lingular mass ( hemorrhagic infarct , no malignant cells ) , status post systemic biopsy for mild chronic gastritis. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Insulin 70/30 70 units b.i.d.; Nexium 40 q.d.; Diflucan 100 q.d.; DesOwen lotion; Lac-Hydrin lotion; Endocet 5/325 b.i.d.; Levaquin 500 q.d. x 10 days. 
ALLERGIES: Codeine which causes constipation; Demerol which causes hallucinations; penicillin which causes hives. 
Coronary artery disease and borderline diabetes in her mother. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is a positive one pack a day smoker x 36 years , denies alcohol or drug use. 
She has a large extended family in the area. 
A history of noncompliance with diabetes management. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Twenty-five pound intentional weight loss over the past two months , decreased energy , shortness of breath on climbing one flight of stairs. 
Pain in legs with exercise. 
Recent polyuria , polydipsia , and noted blood on the underwear in the distant past , believed it to be hemorrhoids. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission. 
VITAL SIGNS: Afebrile , temperature 98.2 , heart rate 97 , blood pressure 140/88 , respirations 18 , oxygen saturation 99% on room air. 
GENERAL: Obese , middle-aged woman in no acute distress. 
HEENT: PERRL. 
EOMI. 
Oropharynx clear. 
Moist mucous membranes. 
Positive upper dentures. 
NECK: No LAD , thyroid not palpable. 
CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
HEART: S1S2 , no murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
JVP at 8.0 cm. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly , no masses. 
EXTREMITIES: Tender , 3.0 cm , firm mobile , nonfixed , nonerythematous question flocculent mass in her left groin without associated lymphadenopathy. 
She did not have palpable lower extremity pulses , though her extremities were warm with less than 2 second capillary refill. 
NEURO: Alert and oriented x 3. Cranial nerves intact. 
5/5 strength bilaterally upper and lower extremities. 
Sensation grossly intact upper and lower extremities , thought some subjective altered sensation in the lower extremities bilaterally. 
IMPRESSION: A 48-year-old female with a long history of poorly controlled insulin-dependent diabetes , initially admitted for an I&amp;D left vulvar abscess , control of her diabetes in the setting of infection , though she developed acute pulmonary edema after being on the insulin drip and ultimately had a cardiac workup which revealed severe left systolic dysfunction with an EF of 30% and a 2-3 coronary vessel disease. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1 ) Infectious Disease: She had a vulvar abscess , received gentamicin ( dosing per levels ) and clindamycin for the duration of her hospital course. 
Her cultures revealed 1+ vaginal flora , anaerobic culture revealed bacteroides , pepto Strep and Propionibacterium. 
She is status post an I&amp;D of the vulvar abscess on hospital day #2 which throughout the hospital course showed no signs or symptoms of further infection and the plan is for her to follow up with Dr. Stepler as an outpatient and for her to go home on clindamycin to complete a fourteen-day course. 
2 ) Diabetes mellitus: On admission her finger sticks were 600. 
She at that time received a 15 unit bolus with subsequent insulin drip until the OR. 
She transitioned to subcu insulin on hospital day #3 and when her diet returned she returned to NPH similar to home dosing of 50 b.i.d. and Regular 14 moved up to 17 units b.i.d. with a sliding scale to cover. 
Her sugars were in the high 100s-low 200s on this regimen. 
Her discharge sugars were about the same and she was discharged on her original outpatient dose of 70/30 70 units b.i.d. 3 ) Cardiopulmonary: On hospital day #1 the patient started with complaints of cough and shortness of breath with sort of a plus/minus response to nebs , given her history of asthma and smoking. 
She had a chest x-ray that showed pulmonary edema with small effusions which was felt to be due to the fluid from the insulin drip. 
She had an EKG with a left bundle branch block which was new from an EKG in 2000. 
She then was placed on a rule out protocol with flat enzymes. 
An echocardiogram that revealed a 30% ejection fraction , global hypokinesis , moderate to severe decrease in systolic function , moderate MR , trace TR. 
She underwent an adenosine MIBI stress test to show a small reversible perfusion defect ( diagonal coronary artery distribution ) , severe global hypokinesis. 
She was placed on aspirin and simvastatin ( LDL 160s ) , Lopressor , and Captopril. 
She was diuresed with Lasix IV. 
She underwent a cardiac catheterization on October which revealed LAD long 80% stenosis , 50% RCA stenosis , and a pulmonary wedge pressure of 27. 
A coronary artery bypass graft was recommended by cardiology and after a family meeting they decided on discharge with follow up for CABG decision and planning. 
4 ) GI: Low salt fluid restricted diet in-house and started on Nexium for a history of gastritis. 
5 ) Renal: BUN and creatinine was turning upward after the titration of her ACE inhibitor , this was monitored and stabilized. 
6 ) Pulmonary: Pulmonary wedge pressure of 27 , the patient with pulmonary hypertension likely due to left volume overload. 
She was going home with Lasix 40 mg p.o.q.d. and lisinopril 20 b.i.d. 
The discharge plan was for her to be discharged medically optimized for cardiac surgery , if she makes the decision to go in that direction. 
She has follow up appointments with both her primary care physician Dr. Katheryn Gruntz and GYN Dr. Stepler . 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Clindamycin 300 mg q.i.d.; simvastatin 20 mg q.d.; lisinopril 20 mg b.i.d.; atenolol 25 mg q.d.; Lasix 40 mg q.d.; aspirin 325 mg q.d.; insulin 70/30 70 units b.i.d. subcu. 
DISCHARGE FOLLOWUP: Dr. Stepler , for her to call and make an appointment in two weeks. 
Primary care physician Dr. Katheryn Gruntz , make an appointment within one week. 
Dictated By: GAYE FRANZA , M.D. XF08 Attending: ROXANNA E. MOLTER , M.D. NM7  VS852/163316 Batch: 97090 Index No. RCSFP178JI D: 1/4/02 T: 1/4/02 CC: 1. EVELIA STEPLER , M.D. 2. KATHERYN SATURNINA GRUNTZ , M.D.