682349409 | PUO | 25903098 | | 6049287 | 6/24/2005 12:00:00 AM | HEART FAILURE , HYPONATREMIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/16/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/2/2005 ATTENDING: BOARD , KATHIE MIREYA MD ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: Decompensated heart failure and hyponatremia. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Congestive heart failure. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Transfer from outside hospital for decompensated heart failure and hyponatremia. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 65-year-old female with nonischemic cardiomyopathy , diabetes , obesity with ICD/biventricular pacer , CHF with EF of 15% was admitted to an outside hospital initially for a fall and was subsequently found to have decompensated heart failure and hyponatremia. 
The patient was then transferred to Totin Hospital And Clinic for further treatment. 
At the time of the fall , the patient was not presyncopal , likely due to possibly feeling weak. 
At the hospital , the patient received p.o. Lasix and then IV Lasix with little success in treating CHF. 
The patient was found to have sodium level of 117 , hydrochlorothiazide was then withheld and the patient was restricted on fluids. 
Of note , the patient comes in on Coumadin therapy secondary to having a CVA in 10/5 with no residual symptoms while off Coumadin. 
The patient denies any history of chest pain , shortness of breath , palpitations , however , the patient knows that he has had increasing dyspnea on exertion and weakness. 
She also notes some swelling and difficulty lying completely flat. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. CHF with EF of 15% with biventricular pacer and ICD on an anticoagulation. 
2. CVA in 7/17 3. Diabetes. 
4. Hypertension. 5. Chronic back pain treated with Neurontin , Xanax , and oxycodone. 
6. Agoraphobic/anxiety disorder. 
7. Hypercholesterolemia. ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS: 1. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily. 
2. Digoxin 0.125 mg once daily. 
3. Lasix 80 mg twice daily. 
4. Isordil 30 mg p.o. daily. 
5. Xanax 0.5 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. 6. Potassium 60 mEq p.o. b.i.d. 7. Vicodin q.6h. 
p.r.n. 8. Coumadin 5 mg Monday , Wednesday , Friday. 
9. Neurontin 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
PHYSICAL EXAM AT ADMISSION: Vital signs: Temperature 96.6 , blood pressure 98/60 , respiratory rate 18 , O2 sat 95% , pulse 70. 
General appearance: No apparent distress. 
Awake , alert , and oriented to place and person x2 , somewhat oriented to time , knows ear and month. 
Lungs: Crackles at the bases bilaterally to mid lung fields. 
HEENT: Extraocular movements intact. 
Pupils equal , round , and reactive. 
Cardiovascular: S1 , S2 , 3/6 systolic ejection murmur. 
JVP 18 cm , regular rate and rhythm. 
Abdominal exam: Soft , nontender , nondistended. 
Positive bowel sounds. 
Extremities: Trace edema bilaterally 1+ , 2+ pulses bilaterally. 
No calf tenderness. 
Neurologic exam: Remembers 2/3 objects at 5 minutes , alert and oriented x2-3 , follows commands , slurred speech , a little bit drowsy but alert. 
No facial droop. 
No ptosis. 
4/5 strength bilaterally. 
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Sodium 120 , creatinine 0.9 , potassium 4.8 , magnesium 1.9 , white count 6.9 , hematocrit 42.5 , INR 2.1. 
EKG: V paced , sinus rhythm , no ischemic changes. 
Chest x-ray: Pleural effusions bilaterally , no infiltrates , CHF. HOSPITAL COURSE: This is a 65-year-old female with non-ischemic cardiomyopathy , CHF with EF of 15% and on a biventricular pacer , ICD , diabetes , obesity , admitted from outside hospital for treatment of hyponatremia and decompensated heart failure. 
1. Cardiovascular: A. Pump: The patient initially was in significant decompensated heart failure. 
As a result , the patient was immediately started on diuretics with torsemide IV 100 mg twice a day with a goal of -1 to -2 liters daily. 
Daily weights and strict I &amp; Os were monitored daily. 
The patient was also placed on 1 liter free water restriction and 2 liters fluid restriction. 
Digoxin levels were shown to be in normal range. 
The patient was continued on digoxin , Isordil , and thiazides were held secondary to patient's hyponatremia. 
Over the hospital course , the patient's hyponatremia improved significantly and gradually back up in to the 130s. 
The patient continued to diurese well initially with a weight of 83.5 kilograms. 
At the time of discharge , the patient's weight was approximately 273 kilograms. 
The patient also continued to show much improvement in terms of energy level. 
Subjectively , the patient felt better. 
Zestril was also slowly added to patient's CHF regimen. 
At the time of discharge , Zestril 10 mg per day was added. 
A beta-blocker was also added , specifically Coreg at 3.125 mg twice daily , Aldactone 25 mg once daily was also added to the regimen. 
In terms of diuresis initially , the patient was on 100 mg b.i.d. p.o. torsemide and at one point was switched to Lasix drip as the patient was not responding to diuretics. 
Eventually the patient was transitioned back to an oral regimen with torsemide ultimately at 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
Echocardiogram was also performed which showed significant mitral regurgitation with reversal of flow in the pulmonary venous system. 
As a result , there was consideration and discussion about mitral valve replacement. 
The patient is amenable to procedure performed by Dr. Perch This will be discussed and coordinated by his office and him. 
This will be a percutaneous procedure possibly. 
The patient's electrolytes were monitored twice daily as the patient was actively being diuresed. 
Electrolytes were repleted p.r.n. 
B. Rhythm: The patient has no active arrhythmias. 
However , the patient's ICD and biventricular pacemaker was found to be towards end of life and required replacement. 
As a result , although not urgent during this admission , ICD/biventricular pacer was replaced by Dr. Dominguez on 4/20/05. 
The patient tolerated the procedure very well with no complications. 
The patient's ICD pocket was checked for any signs of pocket hematoma or other complications. 
The patient is stable and new ICD/pacer is functioning properly. 
No signs of bleeding or infection. 
C. Ischemia: There are no active issues. 
EKGs demonstrated no signs of cardiac ischemia. 
The patient was chest pain free throughout the hospitalization. 
2. Endocrine: The patient's home regimen was held and the patient was continued only on a insulin sliding scale after meals and at bedtime. 
Fingersticks demonstrated good sugar control. 
Fingersticks were managed mostly between 100 and 120. 
3. FEN: The patient was on diabetic diet. 
The patient was also checked twice daily for electrolytes and repleted for magnesium and potassium scale. 
Sodium was also monitored as the patient was initially admitted for hyponatremia. 
As a result , all thiazides were held. 
4. Hematology: The patient had a home dose of Coumadin 5 mg Monday , Wednesday , Friday. 
The patient's regimen was continued as inpatient and was slightly modified eventually to approximately 2 to 2.5 mg once daily. 
INR was maintained therapeutic throughout the hospitalization. 
ICD replacement procedure per Dr. Brumet The patient was continued with the foal INR between 2.0 to 2.5. 5. Psyche/Neuro: Continued patient's home regimen of Xanax , Neurontin and pain medication to control chronic back pain. 
6. Prophylaxis: For DVT prophylaxis , the patient was on Coumadin with therapeutic INR. 
For GI prophylaxis , the patient was placed on Nexium. 
Physical therapy consult was also called to evaluate the patient's functional status. 
The patient also underwent regular physical therapy sessions inhouse to improve functional status. 
ID: The patient's UA demonstrated possible evidence for urinary tract infection. 
This may also have contributed to patient's decompensated heart failure and also initial complaints of feeling weak. 
Urine culture demonstrated that the patient had citrobacter that was sensitive to ciprofloxacin. 
As a result , the patient was started on a course of ciprofloxacin. 
The patient was also placed in isolation as the strain was resistant to gentamicin. 
The patient after treatment was taken off contact isolation. 
The patient was afebrile. 
Vital signs were stable with no complaints of dysuria , chills , or fevers throughout hospitalization. 
Subsequent UA demonstrated evidence that urinary tract infection was adequately treated. 
DISPOSITION: The patient to follow up with home cardiologist within one to two weeks. 
After discharge , the patient will also follow up with Dr. Service to discuss further treatment of mitral valve regurgitation. 
After Coumadin follow up and INR blood draws , the patient will follow up with primary care doctor. 
eScription document: 2-7777026 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: DURRETTE , SEYMOUR Attending: BOARD , KATHIE MIREYA Dictation ID 2985592 D: 1/13/05 T: 1/13/05