063586499 | PUO | 71740995 | | 1175278 | 8/29/2005 12:00:00 AM | CARDIOMYOPATHY | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/26/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/9/2005 ATTENDING: DOUGLASS PETTINGER MD PRIMARY MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS: Congestive heart failure. 
OTHER MEDICAL DIAGNOSES: Morbid obesity , hypothyroidism , hypertension , history of poor adherence to medical regimen. 
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 58-year-old woman with medical history as mentioned above and history of idiopathic cardiomyopathy with her last echocardiogram in 6/22 showing ejection fraction of 35-45%. 
She presents with approximately 1.5 weeks of increasing shortness of breath and dyspnea on exertion. 
The patient denies chest pain , fevers or chills but does say that she has had sore throat and a cough for approximately one week. 
The cough is productive of clear frothy sputum. 
The patient reports compliance with most of her medicines but states that she is not taking Synthroid and lisinopril because these medications make her feel bad. 
She also reports eating submarine sandwiches for the past week secondary to difficulty shopping and doing her cooking at home. 
She does not measure her daily weights. 
She states that in addition to the Synthroid and lisinopril , she is unsure of her other medical regimen as she has run out of some of her medicines at home. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As above. 
ALLERGIES: Ampicillin causes a rash. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has two adult children at home and reports that she drinks approximately 1/2-1 pint of ethanol over 2-3 days and binges that occur approximately two times per month. 
ADMISSION DATA: Vital signs: Temperature 97 , pulse 76 , blood pressure 150s/80s. 
note that one read with a small cuff read a blood pressure of 200/100 , this was believed to be secondary to inefficient cuff size. 
Oxygen saturation 94% on room air. 
In general , the patient is morbidly obese , in no acute distress , slowly responsive to questions with frequent staring episodes. 
HEENT exam was significant for mild pharyngeal erythema without exudates. 
Neck exam was significant for no lymphadenopathy. 
Jugular venous pressure was elevated although it is difficult to assess secondary to body habitus. 
Lungs showed clear breath sounds although a few crackles were present at the left base. 
Abdomen was morbidly obese but did have active bowel sounds and was nontender. 
Extremities showed significant subcutaneous fatty tissue , however , there was no pitting edema. 
Extremities were warm throughout. 
Dermatologic exam was significant for dry skin and thin eyebrows. 
Neuro exam revealed 3+ biceps reflexes bilaterally. 
There was a question of slow relaxation phase. 
Chest x-ray showed mild pulmonary redistribution. 
EKG was unchanged from prior , and showed normal sinus rhythm with a first degree AV block , left axis deviation , left ventricular hypertrophy with poor R-wave progression and nonspecific T-wave abnormalities. 
Laboratory values on admission was significant for creatinine of 0.8 , D-dimer was negative at 306 , BNP 2. White blood cell 6.9 , hematocrit 43.6 , platelets 170 , 000 , magnesium 1.7 , potassium 3.2 , INR 0.9 , PTT 29.3. 
INITIAL IMPRESSION: This is a 58-year-old woman with morbid obesity , dilated cardiomyopathy and hypothyroidism in the setting of poor medical compliance , admitted with likely multifactorial dyspnea on exertion and mild congestive heart failure and decompensation. 
SUMMARY OF HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Cardiovascular: Pump: The patient presented with an elevated JVP in the setting of a negative BNP. 
However the clinical exam was more consistent with mild failure and the patient was diuresed with 80 mg of IV Lasix. 
She responded to this dose with good urine output and stable renal function test. 
However , secondary to stress incontinence and difficulty measuring JVP , the patient was slightly over diuresed while inhouse resulting in an increasing BUN to creatinine ratio. 
On her final day of her hospitalization , all diuretics were held and the patient was discharged on her usual regimen of diuretics including Lasix 80 mg once per day. 
The patient had been noncompliant with her lisinopril secondary to throat symptoms and reportedly some lightheadedness. 
Therefore she was changed to Cozaar 50 mg at the time of discharge. 
The patient's discharge weight was 141.5 kg and this was estimated to be dry weight for the patient at this time. 
Rhythm: The patient had first degree AV block that was stable from old EKGs. 
She was monitored on telemetry throughout her hospital stay. 
There were no significant events on telemetry during this hospitalization. 
Ischemia: Rule out MI protocol was initiated in the ED secondary to vague symptoms. 
This was continued and the patient ruled out with serial negative cardiac enzymes x 3. there was no suggestion of ischemic by ECG criteria as well. 
2. Endocrine: The patient has a long history of noncompliance with her thyroid hormone replacement and was clearly hypothyroid on this admission. 
However , secondary to difficulty with blood draws , thyroid function tests that were ordered were not obtained on this admission and should be obtained as an outpatient in the near future. the patient was encouraged to continue taking her thyroid medicine as this may help improve her overall functional status in addition to her cardiomyopathy. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , potassium chloride 20 mEq p.o. q.d. , Prozac 10 mg p.o. q.d. , Ventolin 2 puffs aerosol as needed , levothyroxine 225 mcg p.o. q.d. , multivitamin tablet p.o. q.d. , Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , Flonase 1-2 puffs in the nose twice a day , Advair Diskus one puff twice a day , Aldactone one tablet p.o. q.d. , atenolol 25 mg p.o. q.d. 
FOLLOWUP PLANS: The patient will have a followup in KTDUOO clinic with her primary care provider , the day following discharge , since Wednesday 8/6/05. 
at this time , routine chem-7 can be obtained to evaluate for improvement in renal function and electrolyte status. 
The patient will followup with her cardiologist , Dr. Stautz at her regularly scheduled intervals. 
Tests pending at the time of discharge , the patient had a transthoracic echocardiogram performed which is pending at the time of this dictation. 
The patient is discharged to home with services in good condition. 
eScription document: 8-6143830 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: BIRDETTE , KATHARYN Attending: PETTINGER , DOUGLASS Dictation ID 5427028 D: 1/5/05 T: 1/5/05