600101831 | PUO | 62698226 | | 9643504 | 9/18/2003 12:00:00 AM | ISCHEMIC HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/2/2003 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 7/15/2003 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This patient is a 72-year-old woman with ischemic cardiomyopathy status post CABG in 1995 who presented with palpitations. 
The patient said her symptoms developed about a month ago. 
She has had stress for the last few months. 
Her husband died six months ago from pancreatic cancer. 
When her palpitations developed she assumed that they were related to anxiety. 
She said that she would feel a rapid heart rate that would last about thirty minutes at a time and occurred several times a week. 
She denied any chest pain or syncope with these episodes. 
She presented to cardiology clinic to see Dr. Lyn where an electrocardiogram was done and she was found to have a heart rate of 162. 
Her blood pressure at that time was 100/60. 
She was admitted to the cardiology service for further evaluation. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Coronary artery disease , status post coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) in April , 1995. 
Vessels bypassed were the LIMA/LAD , SVG/PDA. 
Her CABG was preceded by her first MI in October 1995 where she was found to have stenosis in her stenosis in her LAD , RCA. 
She had PCI to both vessels in the intervening period. 
She had unstable angina and was recathed which showed restenosis leading up to her CABG. 
Her last echocardiogram was in September , 2001 that showed an ejection fraction of 20%. 
2. Type 2 diabetes which is complicated by peripheral neuropathy. 
3. Hypertension. 
4. Gout. 5. Anxiety and depression. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Pravachol 10 mg p.o.q.d.; Elavil 20 mg p.o. once a day; allopurinol 3 x week; Toprol 25 mg once a day; Lasix 40 mg once a day; Accupril 10 mg once a day; digoxin 0.125 mg once a day; Xanax t.i.d. p.r.n. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient's husband died six months ago of pancreatic cancer. 
He was a retired Kigan Parkway policeman. 
She has a long history of heavy smoking but is not currently smoking. 
She denies any alcohol use. 
She lives alone on the Tonpaulhunt Hamp Geaus but has a daughter who lives in Orl Rocheda Saltprocra PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 98.6 , heart rate 104 , blood pressure 100/60 , satting 96% on room air , breathing 18. GENERAL: She is in no acute distress. 
HEENT: Extraocular movements intact. 
Pupils equally round and reactive to light and accommodation. 
JVP flat at 45 degrees. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: She had a laterally displaced PMI , normal S1 , split S2. LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds. 
EXTREMITIES: Lower extremities were warm with 1+ edema bilaterally. 
NEURO: Cranial nerves II-XII were intact. 
Electrocardiogram on admission showed normal sinus rhythm with left atrial enlargement and left bundle branch block. 
Her electrocardiogram in clinic showed a wide complex tachycardia and a left bundle branch block. 
Her chest x-ray showed no pulmonary edema or infiltrate. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: This patient is a 72-year-old woman with a significant ischemic heart disease who was admitted with wide complex tachycardia. 
1 ) Cardiovascular - Ischemia: The patient's abnormal rhythm was presumed to be ventricular tachycardia given her history of severe ischemic heart disease. 
Once her tachycardia was stabilized she was taken to catheterization which showed patent grafts. 
She did have a small increase in her troponin but this was thought to be related to demand. 
She did not have any complaints of chest pain during the hospitalization. 
We continued her on her beta blocker and initially held her digoxin while we were controlling her rhythm. 
She was slightly hypotensive during her episodes of tachycardia so we initially held her Accupril as well , but her medications were resumed a few days before discharge. 
Pump: At the time of admission the patient was classified as having Class II heart failure although she did admit to not being very active and it was felt that if the patient exerted herself more she would have more symptoms. 
On her catheterization her pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was found to be 31 with a normal right atrial pressure. 
She also had a repeat echocardiogram which showed an ejection fraction of 15% with 1+ MR and a thick aortic and mitral valve. 
She did not exhibit any signs of volume overload during her hospitalization and we continued her home dose of Lasix. 
We also kept her on a two liter fluid restriction but her creatinine soon began to increase from a baseline level of 1.4 to a peak of 2.1. 
The patient did admit that she drank a significantly larger amount of fluid at home and so she was quite hypovolemic in comparison to what she was normally used to. 
As a result we liberalized her fluid restriction and her creatinine normalized. 
Rhythm: When the patient arrived her tachycardia resolved and she was in normal sinus rhythm. 
However , later that evening she went back into ventricular tachycardia. 
She had stayed in ventricular tachycardia with her heart rate often reaching the 130s for several minutes at a time. 
Her blood pressure was always stable in the 90s/50s. 
She denied any chest pain. 
She was given an amiodarone load of 150 mg IV x 1 over 20 minutes and also started on a p.o. load of 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
Over the next two days she continued to have episodes of sustained ventricular tachycardia for five minutes at a time and ultimately her ventricular tachycardia progressed so that she would have episodes of 10-15 minutes at a time. 
When she became symptomatic she was started on an amiodarone drip. 
This was done through a peripheral line and after several hours the patient developed a mild phlebitis. 
She was taken off the drip and placed again on p.o. amiodarone. 
Her VTAC was thought to be primarily due to her ischemic cardiomyopathy and we discussed the need for an ICD with her. 
She was reluctant but ultimately agreed. 
We did also discuss the possibility of an EP study and ablation but the patient preferred the least invasive method possible. 
While the patient was currently in compensated heart failure , as mentioned previously it was felt that this was because she did not exert herself any further , and that it was likely that she would within the next year or two , decompensate and have more symptoms of congestive heart failure. 
Because of the severity of her disease a dual-chamber pacemaker was also placed at the same time as the ICD. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well. 
By the time of discharge her amiodarone was decreased to 200 b.i.d. 
This will likely be decreased to 200 q.d. as an outpatient. 
She did not have any more episodes of VTAC. 2 ) Endocrinology: We kept the patient on her same insulin regimen of 60 units in the morning and in the evening and covered her with an insulin sliding scale. 
3 ) Pulmonary: The patient will have pulmonary function tests as an outpatient given her therapy with amiodarone. 
At baseline she did not have any pulmonary complaints. 
4 ) ID: When the patient was given IV amiodarone she did develop phlebitis. 
Despite the fact that the amiodarone was quickly discontinued , she did develop what appeared to be a mild cellulitis. 
She was started on Keflex and her cellulitis resolved. 
During the hospitalization she also had a urinary tract infection with E. coli. 
We were limited in the antibiotics that we could choose. 
We did not want to use levofloxacin because of the potential to prolong her QT given that she was taking amiodarone and Elavil. 
She had an allergy to Bactrim which had a reported history of renal failure. 
We were not able to find out any more details on this reaction. 
As a result we gave her a seven-day course of cefpodoxime given that the UTI was speciated to E. coli. 
5 ) Rheumatology: The patient has a history of gout. 
We continued her allopurinol. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was sent home with her daughter. 
We did offer for her to have VNA but she refused and felt that her needs would be met at her daughter's house. 
At the time of discharge she was not sure whether she was going to move back to her home eventually in the Iga or whether she was going to sell her home and move closer to family. 
FOLLOWUP: The patient has follow up appointments with Dr. Dobrich and Dr. Gaskell She will have pulmonary function tests. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Pravachol 10 mg p.o. once a day; Elavil 20 mg p.o.q.d.; NPH 60 mg q. a.m. and q. p.m.; allopurinol 300 mg Monday , Wednesday , Friday; Glucotrol 10 mg p.o. once a day; Toprol 25 mg once a day; Lasix 40 mg once a day; Accupril 10 mg once a day; digoxin 0.0625 once a day; amiodarone 200 mg twice a day; Keflex 250 mg p.o. x 2 doses; cefpodoxime 100 mg p.o.q.d. x 2 days. 
Please note that we decreased the patient's digoxin dose from 0.125 to 0.0625 given the addition of amiodarone. 
Dictated By: ARIE L. TELES , M.D. NTTJMC Attending: FERNANDE R. PREWER , M.D. RJLH AZ409/737376 Batch: 92864 Index No. QDKY5H9YW3 March August