132781378 | PUO | 96108627 | | 6057874 | 6/20/2006 12:00:00 AM | PRE-SYNCOPE | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 1/30/2006 Report Status: Unsigned Discharge Date: 1/29/2006 ATTENDING: COCOMAZZI , REA M.D. ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: Mechanical fall. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Mechanical fall. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1. Hypertension. 2. Bradycardia. 
3. Osteoarthritis , status post left total knee replacement. 
4. Spinal stenosis. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mrs. Mcguffee is a 73-year-old woman with a history of coronary artery disease , hypertension , dyslipidemia , and arthritis who presents with a fall. 
The patient has a history of pulmonary embolism in 2000 , treated with Lovenox and Coumadin. 
The patient also has a history of coronary artery disease , status post non-ST elevation myocardial infarction. 
She presented with chest pain in 2001 and had a troponin I , which peaked at 25. Cardiac catheterization revealed a left-sided occlusion and percutaneous coronary intervention was unsuccessful. 
A subsequent adenosine mibi in September 2002 revealed normal left ventricular function and no perfusion defects. 
The patient has since been admitted for left chest pain , last in February 2005 , which has been attributed to her shoulder arthritis. 
She ruled out for myocardial infarction at that time and chest CT scans were also negative. 
Today , the patient was talking to her son on the phone when she went to retrieve a pen and her left knee gave out and she suffered a mechanical fall to the floor. 
She struck her left forehead against a dresser. 
She did not have any loss of consciousness and also denied chest pain , shortness of breath , or palpitations. 
There were no focal neurological deficits and no actively inflamed joints. 
She says that her left lower extremity , especially her left knee is chronically unstable and weak. 
In the emergency department , the patient was afebrile. 
Her heart rate was 70. 
Her systolic blood pressure was initially 190 mmHg , but subsequently came down to 150 mmHg without any intervention. 
A head CT was negative for bleed and a chest x-ray was negative for infiltrate or effusions. 
She was admitted to Medicine for further evaluation. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease , hypertension , hypercholesterolemia , osteoarthritis , polyarthritis with positive rheumatoid factor , and a positive ANA , spinal stenosis , pulmonary embolism in 2001 , obesity , pseudogout , status post left total knee replacement , history of right foot cellulitis , gastroesophageal reflux disease , and history of colonic adenomas. 
ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to Bactrim and shellfish. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Include aspirin 325 mg , atenolol 25 mg , Plaquenil 400 mg daily , lisinopril 60 mg daily , nifedipine 90 mg daily , meloxicam 7.5 mg daily , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg daily , Lipitor 40 mg daily , Protonix 40 mg daily , and Colace 100 mg p.r.n. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient's temperature was 96.2 degrees , heart rate was 52 beats per minute , blood pressure was 142/70 , respiratory rate was 18 breaths per minute , and the patient's oxygen saturation was 97% on room air. 
On physical exam , the patient was lying in bed in no apparent distress and was alert and oriented. 
The extraocular movements were intact. 
There is no scleral icterus with a mild proptosis and some periorbital induration around her right eye , which was tender to palpation. 
The jugular venous pressure was 8 cm of water. 
The lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
On her cardiac exam , the patient had a regular rate and rhythm , a normal S1 with physiological split S2 and a 2/6 systolic murmur , best heard at the base. 
Abdomen was soft and nontender , with active bowel sounds. 
The patient's extremities were warm and well perfused without edema. 
On strength testing , the patient had 4/5 strength in her left knee extensors and left hip flexors; otherwise , all other muscle groups in her lower extremities were 5/5. 
The patient reports that her left lower extremity weakness is chronic. 
There were no effusions on either knee. 
Skin was without rashes. 
INITIAL LABORATORY DATA: Her sodium was 143 , potassium 3.4 , chloride 107 , bicarb 28 , BUN 16 , creatinine 0.9 , with glucose of 160. 
The patient had a white blood cell count of 5300 , hematocrit was 35.7 , and platelets were 217 , 000. 
Her INR was 0.9 and a PTT was 27.8. 
The patient's initial CK was 177 , CK-MB was 3.7 , and troponin I was less than assay. 
An EKG showed sinus bradycardia with normal axes and no T-wave changes , no Q waves , and no ST changes. 
Chest x-ray showed no acute cardiopulmonary process and a head CT was negative for mass or bleed. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted due to a mechanical fall and ruled out for myocardial infarction by serial CKs and troponins drawn 8 hours apart for three sets. 
Her EKGs remained unchanged throughout her hospitalization and the patient had no chest pain , shortness of breath , or any other cardiac symptoms. 
Her troponin values were all less than assay. 
The patient ambulated with PT the morning after her admission without difficulty , navigating stairs , and also walking around the pond without any difficulty whatsoever. 
The patient also had plain films taken of her left knee , which showed that her left knee prosthesis was well seated without any evidence of instability or fusion or fracture of the joint. 
The patient was noted during her hospitalization to be bradycardiac to the mid 40s while sleeping. 
It was recommended that the patient follow up with the primary care physician to assess whether she needs to continue on her atenolol due to bradycardia noted on telemetry. 
The patient will also follow up with her orthopedist regarding her proceed instability of her left knee joint. 
The patient's orthopedist is Dr. Babula of the Loring Medical Center and her primary care physician is Dr. Tobolski in Sa Pehall The patient will call for follow-up appointment with her physicians. 
The patient was discharged with her son to home on the evening of 8/19/06 to continue her admission medications. 
There were no changes made to her medications listed above. 
eScription document: 8-4387827 CSSten Tel Dictated By: ARUIZU , JULIANNE MARIE Attending: COCOMAZZI , REA Dictation ID 6613420 D: 8/19/06 T: 11/19/06