461385149 | PUO | 02258900 | | 985988 | 5/4/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/24/1996 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/17/1996 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: NECK PAIN. 
ADDITIONAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. LEFT BUNDLE BRANCH BLOCK ON ELECTROCARDIOGRAM. 
2. NON-INSULIN-DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS. 
3. HYPERTENSION. 
4. HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA. 5. CHRONIC NECK PAIN. 6. IMPOTENCE. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Biddleman is a 63-year-old man with a history of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension , and chronic neck and shoulder pain who presented with a near syncopal episode and a new left bundle branch block on EKG. 
He has a history of intermittent episodes of sudden onset of an ill defined , non-painful sensation that shoots from the region of his left shoulder , up his left neck , and then across his head bilaterally. 
The episodes are usually instantaneous. 
He does not know how often he has them , but does not think that he has had more of these episodes recently. 
He has previously been worked up for chronic neck and left shoulder pain that is attributed , in part , to a history of trauma. 
X-rays have shown degenerative arthritis in the cervical spine , especially in the region of C6 and C7 with evidence of foraminal narrowing and nerve root impingement. 
He also has evidence of multiple osteophytes in his cervical spine and in the region of his left shoulder. 
He has had a normal head CT in 7/17 This pain has been responsive to physical therapy and traction in the past. 
Today , he had a similar such episode while turning his head to the right while driving his car. 
The shooting sensation from his shoulder up to his head was accompanied by a near loss of consciousness and was followed immediately by flushing with diaphoresis and then weakness and dizziness that persisted for about 5-10 minutes. 
He did feel nauseated , but did not vomit. 
He denied any chest pain , shortness of breath , or palpitations. 
He pulled his car over to the side of the road and had his friend drive him to TTHC. 
He continued to feel weak. 
He was noted at TTHC to have a left bundle branch block on his EKG that was new compared to an EKG obtained in 8/3 He was , therefore , referred to Pagham University Of for further evaluation and management. 
On system review , he gives a history of dyspnea on exertion and exertional fatigue with shortness of breath that is relieved by rest. 
This has not changed recently and seems stable. 
He also had stable three pillow orthopnea. 
He denied any paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or swelling of lower extremities. 
His cardiac risk factors include diabetes mellitus , hypertension , a positive family history , hypercholesterolemia , and he is a former smoker. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , diagnosed in 1992 , last glycosylated hemoglobin was was 12.7 in 6/18 2. Possible coronary artery disease , last exercise tolerance test in 6/10 was without any evidence of EKG changes. 
3. Hypertension diagnosed in 1992. 
4. Hypercholesterolemia with baseline cholesterol 251 , LDL 175 , HDL 32 , and triglycerides 262. 5. Chronic neck and left shoulder pain as above. 
6. History of headaches , possible migraine headache versus cluster headaches. 
7. Probable gastroesophageal reflux disease by history. 
8. History of a right sided pneumonia and empyema status post right sided chest tube four weeks , now with chronic pleural changes. 
9. Benign prostatic hypertrophy , last PSA was 2.88 in 3/22 10. 
Impotence , normal prolactin and testosterone levels. 
11. 
History of balanitis. 
12. History of psoriasis. 
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: 1. Glipizide 5 mg p.o. q.day. 
2. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg p.o. q.day. 
3. Aspirin. 
4. Terazosin 2 mg p.o. q.day. 5. Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. 6. Ativan p.r.n. 7. Percocet p.r.n. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
There is no family history of diabetes mellitus or hypertension. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a retired custodian. 
His wife died in the last year , just after having undergone a coronary arterial bypass graft. 
He has three children who lives in the area. 
He claims he quit smoking in 1990 after a 40 pack year history. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: His temperature was 98.5 , heart rate between 90 and 100 , blood pressure 144/96 , respiratory rate 16 , and oxygen saturation 95% on two liters by nasal cannula. 
He appeared to be a middle aged man who was comfortable lying in bed. 
HEENT examination was notable for a 5 mm nodule on the palpebral margin of his right upper eyelid. 
Sclera were anicteric. 
Pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light. 
Extraocular muscles were intact. 
Oropharynx was without any evidence of lesions or without any adenopathy or masses. 
There was no jugular venous distention apparent and no bruits heard. 
His neck was nontender to palpation. 
His back was nontender to palpation. 
No muscle spasm was palpable. 
His lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
His heart rate sounded somewhat fast , but was regular. 
His heart sounds were distant with an indistinct first heart sound , but a second heart sound without evidence of splitting. 
No S3 was heard. 
There was a question of a fourth heart sound. 
There was also question of a grade I/VI systolic murmur at the left sternal border and apex. 
He had good radial and dorsalis pedis pulses. 
His abdomen appeared obese with active bowel sounds. 
It was soft and nontender. 
His liver span was estimated at 6 cm by percussion. 
He did not have any splenomegaly. 
His stool was heme occult negative. 
Extremities were without any evidence of cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. 
His skin was warm and moist without any lesions. 
Neurologic examination showed an alert and oriented man with fluent speech and 5/5 motor strength in his upper extremities and lower extremities bilaterally. 
His touch sensation was intact in his lower extremities bilaterally. 
He had normal biceps and patellar deep tendon reflexes bilaterally. 
His toes were downgoing on Babinski's test bilaterally. 
LABORATORY DATA: Electrolytes were within normal limits with BUN 24 and creatinine 1.2. 
Serum glucose was 204. 
His white blood cell count was 7 , 900 , hematocrit 42% , and platelets 282 , 000. 
His prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin times were normal. 
His liver function tests were normal. 
His cholesterol was 227 with triglycerides 311. 
His cardiac troponin was 0.0. 
EKG , on admission , showed sinus rhythm at a rate of 30 with the left bundle branch pattern that was new compared with an EKG from 8/3 His axis and intervals were normal. 
A chest x-ray demonstrated a right lower lobe opacity and bilateral pleural thickening , no acute infiltrate , and no evidence of congestive heart failure. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The etiology of his symptoms was unclear , but he was admitted to rule out myocardial infarction , given the fact that he had a left bundle branch block pattern on his EKG that was new compared to a previous EKG. 
It was not known whether this new EKG finding was acute or whether this had occurred sometime between 3/16 and the present time. 
He was started on heparin for the possibility of an acute myocardial infarction. 
He was maintained on aspirin and started on a beta blocker. 
His hydrochlorothiazide was discontinued. 
He was started on simvastatin given his hypercholesterolemia. 
He ruled out for an acute myocardial infarction with cardiac enzymes. 
He had an echocardiogram on 2/9/96 which demonstrated borderline left ventricular hypertrophy with low normal systolic function and an estimated ejection fraction of 45%-50%. 
No regional wall motion abnormalities were noted. 
He had mild left atrial enlargement , mild mitral regurgitation , and mild tricuspid regurgitation. 
A Holter monitor on 2/9/96 showed a predominant rhythm of normal sinus rhythm with a few atrial premature beats and ventricular premature contractions. 
There was no evidence of high grade ventricular ectopy. 
Because of his uninterpretable EKG , he underwent exercise testing with MIBI imaging on 3/2/96. 
He exercised for 6 minutes on a standard Bruce protocol. 
This was discontinued due to fatigue. 
His heart rate increased from baseline 58 to a peak of 94 , and his blood pressure changed from 130/60 at rest to 140/50 at peak. 
His peak rate pressure product was 13 , 200. 
His EKG was notable for left bundle branch pattern with 1 mm ST depressions. 
MIBI imaging demonstrated small apical and septal rift consistent with mild ischemia. 
Because he remained asymptomatic , and because his exercise test was without evidence of large areas of myocardium at risk , he was discharged home on 3/2/96. 
He will follow up with his cardiologist for further evaluation as indicated. 
His medication regimen was optimized during his hospital stay. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.day. 
2. Atenolol 100 mg p.o. q.day. 
3. Hytrin 1 mg p.o. q.h.s. 4. Glipizide 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 5. Zantac 150 mg p.o. q.h.s. 6. Simvastatin 10 mg p.o. q.day. 
7. Nitroglycerin 0.4 mg sublingually q.5 minutes as needed for chest pain. 
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION: He was discharged home on a low cholesterol , low saturated fat diet. 
FOLLOW-UP: He will follow up with his primary physician and cardiologist in the next week. 
Dictated By: LEOLA C. MUSICH , M.D. CHOA Attending: CARMON E. BOSHERS , M.D. CH DH419/9554 Batch: 90107 Index No. W7TKWP0QUW July April