800843851 | PUO | 29407184 | | 892850 | 4/6/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/6/1992 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 1/3/1992 DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 
ALBINISM. 
HISTORY OF GOUT. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 46 year old Mexican male with a history of coronary artery disease , who is status post coronary artery bypass grafting and presented with severe left-sided chest pain radiating to the back and arm occurring 7 hours previously. 
The patient's history of c coronary artery disease began in 20 of June , when he developed substernal chest pain and underwent cardiac catheterization showing a 100% right coronary artery occlusion and 80% left anterior descending occlusion , 70% proximal mid-left anterior descending lesion. 
Angioplasty was attempted , but was unsuccessful. 
In 1 of January , the patient underwent a 2-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting by Dr. Golebiowski at Pagham University Of with a left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending and right internal mammary artery graft to the posterior descending artery. 
However , the patient had persistent incisional-type pain after his coronary artery bypass grafting , but reported absence of his angina pain post-CABG. 
The patient underwent an echocardiogram post-CABG showing normal left ventricular function with no regional wall motion abnormalities , moderate effusion and mild left atrial enlargement 4.8 centimeters. 
The patient did well for 2 years post-CABG and underwent an exercise tolerance test in 15 of September , exercising for 10 minutes and 0 seconds , maximum blood pressure 170/100 , without chest pain or electrocardiogram changes , considered to be a negative test. 
Since then , the patient has only had sharp incisional pain not related to exertion , and he suffers no exertional angina and has no exercise limitation. 
Over the past several months , the patient has gradually developed increasing exertional chest pain , increasing in both intensity and frequency , to the point where it was occurring daily 1 week prior to admission. 
The patient had been tried on multiple medications as an outpatient , however , because of issues of noncompliance/alternative belief system , it was unclear as to what medications the patient was actually taking. 
On the day of admission at 1:30 pm , the patient experienced severe 8 out of 10 substernal chest pain radiating to the left arm with numbness and neck tightness , associated with dizziness and numbness on the scalp. 
The patient had no nausea , vomiting or shortness of breath , but did suffer pleuritic pain in addition. 
The pain lasted 30 minutes and was somewhat alleviated with rest and sitting in the supine position on the way to the emergency room. 
At the Pagham University Of emergency room , the patient had worsening of the severity of his pain and was treated with sublingual nitroglycerin without relief , then morphine sulfate 4 milligrams times 2 , Lopressor 5 milligrams times 1 , Nitro-Paste 1 inch with complete relief. 
An electrocardiogram on admission showed normal sinus rhythm , rate 80 , axis normal , no ST or T-wave abnormalities , no Q-waves. 
The patient was admitted to the Ano Sonprai Rotonards Team. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY was notable for albinism , he denies ulcers or gastrointestinal bleeds , he has a history of gout. 
HABITS included former heavy alcohol use , however , he denies use in the last 6 months. 
The patient smoked cigarettes until 5 years ago. 
ALLERGIES were no known drug allergies. 
FAMILY HISTORY was negative. 
SOCIAL HISTORY revealed the patient is an appliance technician , he is married with 3 children. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION revealed that the patient reported using Nifedipine-XL 30 milligrams by mouth each day , enteric-coated aspirin 1 per day , occasional Indocin and colchicine. 
His Carna Home Hospital prescription also included Lisinopril 20 milligrams by mouth per day , and Isordil 20 milligrams by mouth 3 times , but the patient denied taking these. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was mildly diaphoretic in no apparent distress. 
Temperature was 97 , heart rate 78 , blood pressure 140/90 , respiratory rate 20 on 2 liters of oxygen with 97% saturation. 
Skin was pale with red hair. 
Oropharynx was clear , extraocular movements were intact , pupils were equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation. 
Carotids were II+ bilaterally , there was a sternotomy scar on the chest , no evidence of infection. 
Lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion without rales. 
Cardiac examination showed a soft S2 , S1 was normal , no murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
Abdomen was soft , nontender , no hepatosplenomegaly. 
Rectal examination showed normal tone , normal prostate , guaiac negative. 
Femoral pulses were I+ bilaterally without bruits. 
Extremities showed II+ pulses in the dorsalis pedis , no edema , the deep tendon reflexes were normal. 
Neurologic examination was nonfocal. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Chest x-ray showed clear lungs and no pneumonia or congestive heart failure. 
The electrocardiogram was as noted above. 
Sodium was 141 , potassium 4.7 , chloride 112 , bicarbonate 24 , blood urea nitrogen 26 , creatinine 1.8 , of note his baseline is 1.4 in 5-90 , glucose 85 , white blood cell count 3.59 , platelets 125 , 000 , hematocrit 44.5 , prothrombin time 12.7 , partial thromboplastin time 33.9 , creatinine kinase 1 , 010 with 20 myocardial bands , LDH 222. 
Urinalysis was notable for 4+ proteinuria , no white cells , no red cells , 1 to 2 hyaline casts. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The initial impression was the patient had probable coronary disease and probable unstable angina. 
He was admitted for intensive cardiac monitoring and cardiac catheterization. 
The patient was started on heparin at 1 , 000 units per hour after bolus and sliding scale Nitro-Paste , aspirin and Lopressor , and continued on Nifedipine. 
On the first day of admission , the patient suffered 2 episodes of substernal chest pain and he was taken somewhat emergently to cardiac catheterization which revealed a patent left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending , a patent right internal mammary artery graft except for small vessel disease in the graft , and an essentially occluded posterior descending artery. 
The native coronary arteries showed occluded left anterior descending proximally with filling from the left anterior descending , circumflex showed a long 70% proximal lesion at the second obtuse marginal branch with 90% distal lesion. 
The right coronary artery was occluded proximally with right-to-right collaterals and left-to-right collaterals from the left anterior descending. 
The patient was planned for a 2-step angioplasty and was returned to the floor for stabilization while awaiting his angioplasty. 
However , the patient suffered 2 episodes of substernal chest pain despite being on intravenous heparin and intravenous nitroglycerin was initiated and the patient was transferred to the Coronary Intensive Care Unit. 
The patient remained pain-free until he underwent angioplasty of the right coronary artery lesions with a result of 20% residual stenosis. 
Of note , the patient's creatinine kinase levels continued to trend downward with the initial creatinine kinase being 1 , 010 being his maximal value. 
The patient had no further chest pain after his angioplasty , except for the baseline incisional pain which was unrelated to exertion. 
The patient was monitored closely for 2 days after angioplasty. 
Nitroglycerin was tapered off and the patient was discharged on 9 of January Of note , the 4+ proteinuria was unresolved at the time of discharge , because of his unstable course and transfers between the Intensive Care Unit and the floor , we were unable to complete a 24-hour urine collection. 
This issue will be addressed further. 
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to home. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE were aspirin 325 milligrams by mouth each day , Lopressor 100 milligrams by mouth twice a day. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE was stable. 
The patient will FOLLOW-UP with Dr. Rufus Bernas in the Healtship Ron Offa Memorial Medical Center Estimated disability is none. 
Dictated By: ROSSIE K. MANKOSKI , M.D. Ford Pidssaint Sca Attending: RUFUS C. BERNAS , M.D. Leigh Lin Do DF535/30-7 Batch: 0367 Index No. YLVHP28K4B April November CC: JACKQUELINE A. PLAYER , M.D. Ale Portberke Ing