961677284 | PUO | 29991274 | | 463337 | 3/14/2000 12:00:00 AM | R/O MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/16/2000 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 2/27/2000 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: STREPTOCOCCAL TRICUSPID VALVE ENDOCARDITIS SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1. LEFT OPHTHALMITIS 2. SEPTIC POLYARTHRITIS 3. PACEMAKER MALFUNCTION 4. DIABETES MELLITUS TYPE II 5. CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE STATUS POST CORONARY ARTERY BYPASS GRAFTING 6. PACEMAKER PLACEMENT 7. PULMONARY HYPERTENSION 8. OBESITY 9. OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA PROCEDURES: SEE HOSPITAL COURSE HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 54 year old gentleman with a past medical history significant for diabetes mellitus , obesity , coronary artery disease status post coronary artery bypass grafting and pacemaker placement in 1996 and 1999 respectively , who presented on 7/16/2000 with a four day history of cough , fevers , chills , myalgias and left eye pain. 
The patient also noted over the course of four days prior to admission , that his p.o. intake had been decreasing. 
He had been experiencing nausea and vomiting without diarrhea and fevers to 103 degrees. 
On the day of admission the patient noted the sudden onset of vision loss in his left eye associated with redness and pain. 
In the Emergency Room the patient was given Diamox , aspirin and nitropaste in response to T-wave inversions anteriorly on his electrocardiogram. 
In addition , the patient was cultured and started on broad spectrum antibiotics including Ceftriaxone , azithromycin and Gentamycin. 
PHYSICAL EXAM: VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 99.2 , heart rate 60 , blood pressure 118/78 , 98% oxygen saturation on 100 percent face mask. 
HEENT: OS with hazy , edematous cornea , moderately dilated fixed pupil with erythema and injected conjunctiva. 
NECK: Supple without lymphadenopathy , no carotid bruits and no jugular venous distention. 
LUNGS: Bibasilar scant crackles. 
CHEST: Distant heart sounds. 
Regular rate and rhythm. 
No murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
S3 , loud S2. EXTREMITIES: Minimal edema , no cyanosis. 
2 plus peripheral pulses. 
ABDOMEN: Obese , soft , nontender and nondistended. 
Normal bowel sounds. 
Difficult to assess. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Nonfocal. 
RECTAL: Guaiac negative brown stool. 
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Chemistry panel showed BUN 74 , creatinine 2.8 ( baseline 1.0 ) , otherwise normal. 
Albumen 2.4 , liver function studies otherwise normal. 
CK 169 , troponin 1.7 , CBC showed a white blood cell count of 5.5 , hematocrit 33 , platelets 51. Electrocardiogram showed paced rate of 60 with T-wave inversions of V1-V6. 
Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with vascular redistribution. 
No focal infiltrates noted. 
CT of the head showed no evidence of acute bleed. 
Urinalysis essentially negative. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. Infectious disease: The patient was initially treated with broad spectrum antibiotics in the Emergency Room and was rapidly noted to be hypotensive with a systolic blood pressure in the 72. 
The patient was hydrated aggressively and consistently pan cultured. 
The patient began to spike fevers from 100 to 101 range. 
On the second hospital day , the patient grew 4/4 bottles of what turned out to be Group B streptococcus. 
The patient's antibiotics were changed to Penicillin and Gentamycin. 
A transesophageal echocardiogram was performed on the day of admission and did not demonstrate any vegetation , however with persistent high spiking fevers , sepsis and 4/4 blood culture bottles , repeated blood cultures growing GBS the patient had repeat transesophageal echocardiogram. 
This demonstrated a 1.5x1.0 centimeter vegetation on the anterior annulus of the tricuspid valve and it was also noted to be hitting the pacemaker wire though not fixed to it. 
Of note , the bubble study on the echocardiogram was negative for patent foramen ovale. 
The patient presented complaining of left eye pain and loss of vision on the night of admission in the Emergency Room , the ophthalmologist saw the patient and determined that the patient had an elevated pressure. 
The elevated pressure was treated and he responded well by the following day. 
At that time the patient's eye was aspirated and noted to also be infected by GBS. 
The patient was injected intraocular with Vancomycin at that time. 
Unfortunately the patient continued to spike fever despite appropriate therapy for his GBS and his eye appeared to be worsening with continued erythema , conjunctival edema and a purulent exudate. 
It was determined that the patient would require enucleation which he underwent on 5/10/2000. 
The patient also had a right lower extremity cellulitis during his hospital course. 
This was treated with a ten day course of dicloxacillin and resolved without complications. 
The patient's course was complicated by persistent fevers despite appropriate antibiotic therapy and left eye enucleation. 
An extensive work up was undertaken to evaluate the fevers including evaluation for possible epidural abscess , psoas abscess and infected joints. 
None of these proved to be a source. 
The patient underwent multiple joint aspirations ( see musculoskeletal section below ) without clear evidence of infection. 
The patient also underwent a tagged white blood cell scan which demonstrated increased uptake in the left shoulder , manubrium , right knee , left ankle and mid shaft of the left tibia. 
These were interpreted both on the initial views and delayed views as consistent with acute inflammation but not diagnostic of infection. 
As mentioned above the patient was also treated for cellulitis and underwent left eye enucleation. 
The patient's fever curve trended down throughout the hospital stay and on the day prior to admission , the patient underwent a repeat transesophageal echocardiogram to ensure that there was no myocardial abscess. 
There was no evidence of any abscess and the vegetation was no longer visible. 
It was felt that the low grade fevers were secondary to ongoing inflammation but no acute infectious process at the time of discharge. 
The patient's last positive blood culture was 4/3/2000. 
Of note , there was concern that the patient's fever could be secondary to a drug reaction. 
Therefore once the infectious work up was completed , the Penicillin was changed to Vancomycin. 
His gram positive coverage will need to be continued for four weeks after his left eye enucleation. 
2. Ophthalmology: As described above , the patient presented with left eye pain and vision loss. 
It was felt from the time of presentation that the patient would not recover vision in his left eye. 
The patient was treated initially for his elevated pressure and then the following day his eye was aspirated and injected with Vancomycin. 
Ultimately the patient had left eye enucleation. 
The patient's eye healed well through the remainder of his hospital course and does not appear to be a source of infection thereafter. 
The patient's extraocular muscles were left intact with the thought of placing a prosthesis at a later date. 
3. Cardiovascular: On admission the patient was noted to have T-wave inversions anteriorly on his electrocardiogram. 
However it rapidly became clear that his pacemaker was malfunctioning demonstrating only occasional pacing spikes. 
By 6/24/2000 the pacemaker was no longer capturing or sensing. 
As mentioned above , the wire did not appear to be incorporated in the vegetation noted on the tricuspid valve however it did appear that the vegetation was hitting the pacemaker wire with systole and diastole. 
On 6/13/2000 the patient underwent pacemaker explantation without complications. 
The indication for pacemaker placement had been for bradycardia. 
There was some concern throughout the patient's hospital course that the patient would become bradycardic without his pacemaker in place however this never manifested as a problem. 
He did demonstrate some runs of ventricular tachycardia during the early phase of his hospital course but this resolved as his sepsis resolved. 
He did have one episode of supraventricular tachycardia thought to be 1-1 conduction of his atrial arrhythmia. 
His Lopressor was increased in response to this and the patient was tolerating this dose without episodes of bradycardia or hypotension. 
The patient as mentioned above , underwent a transesophageal echocardiogram at the time of admission which demonstrated an ejection fraction of 35 percent , apical hypokinesis , moderately dilated right ventricle with moderately depressed systolic function. 
Mild inferior vena cava dilatation consistent with elevated right heart filling pressures. 
The patient's cardiac function appeared to be stable throughout his hospitalization. 
he did rule out for myocardial infarction at the time of admission. 
4. Musculoskeletal: One of the patient's major presenting complaints was significant arthralgia and myalgia. 
It was though that along with left ophthalmitis , the patient could have septic polyarthritis. 
The patient underwent several arthrocentesis by the rheumatology service. 
Though the fluid did demonstrate elevated white blood cell count it was never clear that these were acutely infected. 
There were no bacteria on gram stain or culture. 
The patient's right knee continued to be tender , erythematous and warm during the initial part of the hospitalization. 
Therefore the patient went to arthroscopic examination on 7/16/2000. 
The patient's knee was lavaged with 9 liters of sterile saline prior to closing all of the effusion was drained. 
There were no complications. 
The patient continued to have symptoms of right knee effusion and pain and therefore returned to the operating room on 10/28/2000 for repeat arthrocentesis. 
Since that time the right knee has reaccumulated a moderate sized effusion but the patient has tolerated physical therapy and has regained a moderate amount of his range of motion. 
It was determined that the patient should not have this effusion drained again because it was no longer warm or erythematous. 
The left shoulder was also quite tender during the initial hospital stay. 
The patient underwent multiple joint aspirations of the glenohumeral and acromioclavicular joints , both at the bed side and under fluoroscopic examination. 
Again , this joint demonstrated elevated white blood cell count but never any clear evidence that it was a septic joint. 
The patient after his left eye enucleation , was noted to have an elevated CK of 1522. 
It was thought that this was an insignificant MB fraction. 
It was not felt that there was enough manipulation to skeletal muscles during the enucleation to warrant this. 
This rise in CK did coincide with increased muscle aches. 
It was felt that the patient perhaps had a mild episode of rhabdomyolysis which resolved quickly to a CK of 177 five days later. 
At the time of discharge the patient is experiencing no myalgias or arthralgias with the exception of the right knee which is still somewhat limited in its range of motion and demonstrates an effusion but is responding well to rehabilitation. 
5. Pulmonary: The patient was quite stable from a pulmonary standpoint throughout his hospitalization. 
The patient was initially maintained in the Emergency Room on high flow oxygen however was quickly weaned to nasal cannula and then room air. 
The patient does have obstructive sleep apnea and used his BIPAP at night throughout his hospitalization. 
6. Hematology: On admission the patient demonstrated a thrombocytopenia with a nadir of 51. 
This has improved throughout his hospital course and on the day of discharge his platelets were noted to be 538. 
The patient was noted to have hematocrit that trended down and corresponded to some guaiac positive stools with anticoagulation. 
The patient received a total of four units of packed red blood cells. 
His hematocrit has remained stable with a good reticulocyte count at the time of discharge. 
The patient was anticoagulated for his atrial fibrillation initially with Heparin and then ultimately with Coumadin 10 mg p.o. q HS. 
The patient's INR has been therapeutic in the 2-3 range for approximately five days. 
7. Renal: On admission the patient was noted to have an elevated creatinine from his baseline of 1.0. 
This was thought to be secondary to dehydration and prerenal azotemia. 
The patient's creatinine reached a peak of 3.0 and stabilized at 1.3 at the time of discharge. 
This appears to have resolved entirely with resolution of sepsis and rehydration. 
8. Fluids/electrolytes/nutrition: The patient was significant dehydrated at the time of admission. 
This responded rapidly to in vitro fertilization. 
He also regained his appetite as his sepsis resolved. 
The patient is noted however to have a very poor albumen , which is 2.3 at the time of discharge. 
The patient will require improved nutrition at rehabilitation and after discharge from rehabilitation. 
The patient's electrolytes were relatively stable throughout his hospital stay. 
9. Endocrine: The patient has a long standing history of type II diabetes mellitus. 
On admission , he was taking metformin 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d. , regular insulin 10 q a.m. and 10 q p.m. , NPH insulin 25 q a.m. and 20 q p.m. His hemoglobin A1-C was noted to be elevated at 8.1 in 11/15 The patient's metformin was held throughout his hospital stay with the anticipation of possible invasive procedures. 
He is maintained and NPH insulin as well as sliding scale insulin. 
The patient was restarted on his metformin prior to discharge and increased dose of NPH insulin. 
This will likely need to be adjusted as the patient recovers further. 
10. 
Gastrointestinal: The patient did develop guaiac positive stools during his anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation. 
This will need to be followed up as an outpatient once the patient has made a full recovery from the acute event. 
Also the patient did demonstrate a mild transaminitis during his hospital stay and this appears to have resolved with the transition from Penicillin to Vancomycin for his antibiotic regimen. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Ilotycin 0.5% topical t.i.d. over left eyelid , Lasix 160 mg p.o. b.i.d. ( 8:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. ) , NPH insulin 50 units q a.m. and 35 units q p.m. , regular insulin 15 units q a.m. and q HS. Regular insulin sliding scale q AC and HS. Metoprolol 50 mg p.o. q.i.d. , Metamucil two packets p.o. b.i.d. , multivitamin with minerals one tablet p.o. q day , Vancomycin 1000 mg intravenously q 12 hours , Coumadin 10 mg p.o. q day , Norvasc 5 mg p.o. q day ( hold if systolic blood pressure less than 110 ) , metformin 1000 mg p.o. b.i.d. , trandolapril p.o. b.i.d. ( hold if systolic blood pressure less than 110 ) , miconazole 2% powder topical b.i.d. , Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q 4 hours p.r.n. headache , Droperidol 0.625 mg intravenously q 6 hours p.r.n. nausea , nitroglycerin 1/150 one tablet sublingual q 5 minutes times 3 p.r.n. chest pain , Serax 15-30 mg p.o. q HS p.r.n. insomnia , Percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q 4h p.r.n. pain , Senna syrup 2 teaspoons p.o. q HS p.r.n. constipation. 
ACTIVITY: Per rehabilitation. 
DIET: ADA 2200 calorie diet , low saturated fat and low cholesterol. 
DISPOSITION ON DISCHARGE: The patient is discharged to the rehabilitation facility. 
Dictated By: HYMAN CARPENTIER , M.D. GI52 Attending: LEOLA C. MUSICH , M.D. WZ94 OK423/3980 Batch: 0026 Index No. F0SM6Q33U4 D: 8/10 T: 8/10 CC: TIARA RENETTA WILLOW BUSALACCHI