784490540 | PUO | 21871093 | | 9010793 | 3/21/2004 12:00:00 AM | Sigmoid stricture | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/21/2004 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 6/3/2004 ATTENDING: LOVELLA CIVALE MD SERVICE: Toaud Hospital Service. 
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Colonic stricture status post sigmoid colectomy. 
LIST OF PROBLEMS AND OTHER DIAGNOSES: 1. History of diverticulitis. 
2. History of questionable inflammatory bowel disease. 
3. GERD. 4. Depression and chronic pain. 5. History of breast cancer. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: 1. Sigmoid colectomy in 2003. 
2. Right breast lumpectomy in 1998. 
3. Multiple Port-a-Cath placements. 
4. Right axillary lymph node dissection in 1998. 
5. History of endoscopy. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: This is a 41-year-old female with a history of diverticulitis and questionable inflammatory bowel disease with a known colonic stricture since 4/5 The patient has had attempted to dilatation without success. 
The patient has also recent history of ribbon like stools and complains of difficulty with bladder function as well as a sense of urgency to urinate. 
Her past medical history is significant for diverticulitis , questionable inflammatory bowel disease , GERD , depression , chronic pain , and history of breast cancer. 
Her surgical history is significant for sigmoid colectomy in 2003 , right breast lumpectomy , axillary lymph node dissection in 1998 , as well as multiple Port-a-Cath placements , and endoscopic treatment. 
She was admitted on 7/20/04 and taken to the OR for a sigmoid colectomy; the procedure was complicated by a left ureteral injury for which Urology was consulted intraoperatively. 
Urology placed a left ureteral stent intraoperatively and made recommendations to maintain stent for a total of six weeks after which time it would be removed on an outpatient basis ( Dr. Cridge will be following this case ). 
In addition , they recommended maintaining Foley for five days. 
The EBL during the case was 2500 cc necessitating transfusion of 4 units of packed red blood cells. 
She was extubated and taken to the PACU in stable condition with an epidural in place on perioperative antibiotics of clindamycin and with NG tube in place. 
On postoperative day #1 , it was noted that the patient was increasingly becoming confused and anxious as well as remained tachycardic despite what was thought to be adequate volume resuscitation and she was transferred to the unit at this point. 
More specifically , in addition to being tachycardic later that day on postoperative day #1 , she became tachypneic with noted hypoxemia and mental status changes in need of intubation. 
Of note , the patient was saturating at 96% on 100% oxygen via facemask. 
It is also notable that the patient in the 24-hour perioperative window received 14-liter of fluid resuscitation. 
The night of postoperative day #1 , as mentioned earlier , the patient was increasingly agitated before she was transferred to the unit and although discontinued her NG tube it was thought at this time that she may have aspirated. 
She also removed her supplemental oxygen and was noted to have saturations in the 85% range with tachycardia in the 140 range. 
A PE protocol CT was obtained that was negative for emboli or DVT but was positive for right upper lobe posterior segment consolidation that was consistent with an aspiration event. 
She was subsequently transferred on the night of postoperative day #1 to the ICU , intubated , and had a right IJ central line placed. 
Overnight , between postoperative day #1 and postoperative day #2 , her blood pressure would drop requiring multiple fluid boluses in addition to the administration of an additional unit of packed red blood cells for a hematocrit of 23. 
She also received albumin. 
Of note , the CT also did not reveal any evidence of acute bleed; however , this was a noncontrast study. 
She was placed on Versed and propofol , intubated in the unit with a fentanyl patch , remained tachycardic , the origin of which was unclear. 
It was thought initially that there was some type of narcotic control that may be responsible for this tachycardia. 
However , it was also speculated that she may be bleeding from an unknown source. 
She was intubated , NPO , NG tube in place with IV fluid resuscitation , Foley in place per Urology as noted above , on subq heparin with close monitoring of the hematocrit with transfusions to be given as necessary placed on a triple regimen of clindamycin , levo , and Flagyl. 
On postoperative day #3 , the patient in the unit with hypertension , anemia , tachycardia , the patient's hematocrit was still 23 and she received 2 additional units of red blood cells and hematocrit rose to 30 at this time. 
She was poorly responsive on postoperative day #3 and it was thought that she had better be weaned off of Versed which happened to be replaced with haloperidol. 
In addition , clonidine was added to her regimen as well as Lopressor secondary to her tachycardia. 
There was close examination of her mental status during this time. 
On postoperative day #4 , the patient was still persistently tachycardic and hypertensive. 
JP was discontinued on the day and , in addition , as noted above , Haldol and clonidine were added to her regimen. 
She continued to be agitated and there was a question raised then that there was an unclear history that was not previously diagnosed of alcoholism and this may have been an alcohol withdrawal phenomenon. 
So , her Versed actually was increased then for a questionable alcohol withdrawal and she was given multivitamins , thiamine and folate and in addition for her hypertension Lopressor 5 q.4 was continued. 
She was still intubated with goals of weaning off ventilation , NPO , NG tube to low suction , the question of TPN was raised , levo and Flagyl for aspiration pneumonia which would be continued for 10-14 days. 
By postoperative day #5 , it was clear that this was a problem of drug or alcohol withdrawal at least that was what was thought. 
Her neuro regimen was changing at this time with various measures using Versed , then using Ativan , and Apresodex to changing her fentanyl regimen as well as adding morphine to her regimen p.r.n. all with goals of increasing the general relaxation. 
Psych was consulted on postoperative day #5 and concluded that this woman had a history of polysubstance abuse , alcohol and likely opiates , and chronic abdominal pain due to stricture which probably was related to her opioid abuse; I believe the delirium was likely multifactorial in etiology , postoperative delirium that was notable for significant fluid shifts , there was the question of aspiration pneumonia in addition to possible opiate and alcohol withdrawal. 
They recommended starting with Zyprexa if the patient was sedated in the a.m. with a DC a.m. 
dose of Zyprexa and just use it in the evening and agreed to taper off the Versed minimizing the use of opiates as tolerated by the patient and encouraged the family to reorient the patient to keep her awake during the day. 
On postoperative day #6 , her mental status was gradually clearing. 
Patient goal was to wean off sedation for a possible extubation. 
Her blood pressure as well as heart rate were stabilizing and tube feeds were also started at this point with multivitamins and mineral replacement. 
In addition , urine output continued to be good. 
Her hematocrit was stable. 
Her cultures were at this point negative , but the antibiotic Flagyl-levo regimen was continued. 
Of note , her stoma would gradually start to produce fluid and her incision during this leg of her course remained clean , dry , and intact. 
On postoperative day #6 , she was also consulted by Addiction Psychiatry who concluded similar results to recommendations concluded earlier. 
They would agree with the Zyprexa and also recommended restarting Ativan , as I said , additionally agreeing with the taper off of the Versed with the use of Ativan only for cases of agitation and additionally recommended to the discontinue the Celexa and BuSpar the patient was on until the delirium cleared to avoid a polypharmacy. 
Of note , Psyche was able to speak with the husband who confirmed the patient's longstanding history of alcohol dependence that likely predated the 10 years that he had known her. 
It is important to note that the patient was consuming approximately a quart of Vodka a day as well as Peppermint Schnapps daily up until her surgery last April . 
After that procedure , she continued to drink presumably about 3 beers a day. 
However , the husband since he was working so much was unable to really adequately guage just how much alcohol she was drinking. 
In addition , she was noted to have , this is per the husband , undergone multiple detoxes at treatment facilities for alcohol dependence and believed that she had experience withdrawal seizures in the past. 
On postoperative day #7 , the patient's mental status was gradually improving with weaning off of her Versed with IV Ativan and low doses as tolerated and p.r.n. 
She , in addition , this day was tolerating her tube feeds; however , she did pull her NG tube again. 
Her Foley was taken out at this time. 
The ureteral injury believed to be resolved at this point , continued on her levo and Flagyl with question of whether or not to stop her antibiotic regimen. 
On postoperative day #8 , mental status continued to improve and she was started on sips which she tolerated well. 
Her IV was hep locked and she was seen fit to be transferred to the floor. 
Of note , also on postoperative day #8 , the patient had some low blood pressure which was treated with volume resuscitation in the form of normal saline boluses that stabilized right after her transfer to the floor. 
On postoperative day #9 , it was noted that the patient had some red stool in the ostomy bag. 
The patient was hemodynamically stable this was afternoon of postoperative day #9. 
Her labs were checked , CBC , and found to be within normal limits and her ibuprofen which she was taking was discontinued. 
On postoperative day #10 , with mental status improving greatly , the patient had her central line discontinued. 
Over the last couple of days , she had made attempts to walk and was walking with PT. 
Her diet over the last couple of days had been advanced without any problems and she was converted to a house diet on postoperative day #10. 
On postoperative day #11 , her mental status seemingly completely resolved on regular diet , out of bed. 
It was noted though that she had some erythema of the mid portion of her wound , three staples were removed from this portion of the wound and serosanguinous exudate was expressed , minimal amount of fluid. 
The wound was explored and there was found to be no fascial defect. 
Cultures were taken at this time and the wound was packed with wet-to-dry dressing with instructions given to the patient and nursing for wet-to-dry dressing changes t.i.d. 
On postoperative day #11 , the patient was seen fit to be discharged home. 
Her mental status had completely resolved. 
She was afebrile and hemodynamically stable , tolerating a regular diet , and fully ambulatory. 
She was to be discharged home with VNA Services. 
Medicine Team that had been seeing her did agree that she needed to contact her psychiatrist to provide an update of the current admission to update her on her medical regimen inhouse and she is to schedule an appointment to follow up with her psychiatrist. 
The Medicine Team also recommended continuing her psyche medications she was taking prior to admission that includes Celexa 4 mg q.d. , BuSpar 10 mg t.i.d. , nortriptyline will be started by her psychiatrist. 
Also recommended to continue Ativan taper as followed with 1 mg t.i.d. today , 1 mg b.i.d. the next day which would have been 5/29 , and then 1 mg q.a.m. on Wednesday 6/26, and then stop taking the Ativan with instructions of no refills on the Ativan. 
The Medicine Team also strongly enforced , reminded her not to drink while taking the Ativan. 
ALLERGIES AND MEDICINE REACTIONS: IV Keflex gives her a rash. 
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: On 7/20/04 , the patient received a sigmoid colectomy , a diverting ostomy. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: See HPI. 
COMPLICATIONS: 1. Intraoperative complication of left ureteral injury. 
2. Alcohol opiate withdrawal. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: BuSpar 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. , fentanyl patch 100 mcg/h. 
and topical q.72h. 
, folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d. , Dilaudid 2-4 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain , thiamine , HCl 100 mg p.o. q.d. , Celexa 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Ativan with a tapered dose of 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. to be tapered on the following day to 1 mg p.o. q.d. and then on day #3 to just 1 mg in the a.m. , Protonix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Neurontin 600 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and clonodine 0.2 mg p.o. q. weekly. 
DISPOSITION: Home with VNA Services. 
eScription document: 1-6943513 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: MCRORIE , DENISHA Attending: CIVALE , LOVELLA Dictation ID 3070207 D: 3/18/04 T: 2/5/04