618283162 | PUO | 09342280 | | 625082 | 11/3/1990 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 1/11/1990 Report Status: Unsigned Discharge Date: 10/8/1990 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient was an essentially healthy 79 year old retired garment industry worker , followed by Dr. Douglass N. Pettinger , the internist at Pagham University Of for the question of transient ischemic attacks. 
On the evening of admission , the patient and his wife noted fatigue , light-headedness and 3 episodes of diaphoresis. 
The patient took 1 to 2 ounces of ethanol for relaxation and several hours later while attempting to climb stairs fell and was unable to get up. 
Soon after , he had one episode of melenotic soft stool in large volume without frank blood and then a moderate amount of coffee ground emesis. 
The emergency medical technicians were called , and in the ambulance the patient had a blood pressure of 110/68 , heart rate 110. 
At the Pagham University Of emergency ward , his blood pressure had dropped to 95/60 and he was symptomatically orthostatic. 
Esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed in the emergency ward , which showed an actively bleeding 1 cm antral lesion in the greater curvature , which was cauterized. 
This was thought to be consistent with a pancreatic cyst or leiomyoma , or less likely a metastatic lesion , along with some mild esophagitis. 
He had no previous history of peptic ulcer disease. 
The patient takes aspirin 1 to 2 tablets per day for several months as question treatment for transient ischemic attack and for his hip pain. 
He also has daily ingestion of ethenol , approximately 2 to 3 ounces , for many years. 
There was no history of nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , weight loss , abdominal pain , anorexia or any other constitutional symptoms. 
There is a remote history of abdominal pain and spastic colon with a negative work-up in 1976 , including a Barium enema , upper gastrointestinal series and abdominal ultrasound. 
He was admitted to the Pagham University Of Medical Intensive Care Unit , where his course was notable for a 5-unit packed red blood cell transfusion with stabilization of his hematocrit and vital signs. 
The initial hematocrit was 21 and he was transfused up to the 37 range. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION included aspirin 2 po q day and Westcort Cream for psoriasis. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY was notable for chronic psoriasis , vertigo question transient ischemic attack , status post multiple excisions for basal cell skin carcinoma , history of hiatal hernia with a question of reflux esophagitis , status post suprapubic prostatectomy for benign prostatic hypertrophy , status post herniorrhaphy , status post appendectomy , question of glucose intolerance diet controlled , status post right cataract surgery with lens implantation. 
FAMILY HISTORY is notable for multiple siblings healthy in their late 80's , one brother with pancreatic carcinoma , hypertension in mother and sister , no history of other systemic illnesses. 
SOCIAL HISTORY reveals the patient is a retired woman's clothing manufacturer , who lives in Ter Hou Le S Di with his wife , who is a Pagham University Of employee. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS is negative , except for the vertigo and occasional episodes of diaphoresis. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was a 79 year old man looking remarkably well and fit. 
He was afebrile , pulse 60 , blood pressure 130/72. 
His skin was well tanned with multiple psoriatic patches on the lower extremities. 
Head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination was unremarkable. 
Neck was normal. 
Chest was clear. 
Cardiac examination showed S4 , S1 and S2 , no S3 , the murmur heard at admission was absent. 
Abdomen was soft , flat , without hepatosplenomegaly. 
Extremities showed pulses to be intact without clubbing , cynosis or edema. 
Neurologic examination was nonfocal. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: The electrocardiogram was normal. 
Chest x-ray was normal. 
Urinalysis showed mild pyuria and hematuria , which will be followed. 
Laboratory values of note included a normal SMA-20 , except for a globulin of 1.6. 
Hematocrit was 37 , with a normal differential. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient underwent several diagnostic studies , including a repeat upper gastrointestinal endoscopy , which showed the 1-cm gastric antral lesion. 
It also showed some thickened folds within the stomach , which were biopsied. 
The lesion was not biopsied for fear of rebleeding. 
The patient also underwent an abdominal computerized tomography , which showed a 1 to 2 cm cystic appearing lesion felt to be consistent with either dilated pancreatic duct or a small pancreatic pseudocyst. 
There was no evidence of intra-abdominal malignancy. 
The patient also underwent an upper gastrointestinal series , which was unremarkable. 
On 22 of July , the patient developed a tender left big toe , which was initially thought to be gout or another inflammatory arthritis , for example psoriatic arthritis , and he was evaluated by the Rheumatology Service. 
The patient underwent a joint tap , the findings of which were unremarkable. 
He also had some erythematous changes on the forefoot , and the picture was thought to be consistent with a mild cellulitis , with perhaps the portal of entry being a psoriatic plaque. 
He was treated with intravenous Kefzol and the erythema resolved overnight. 
The other complicating issue is a mild elevation in liver enzymes noted on the day before admission. 
This needs to be followed. 
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE include Pepcid 20 mg po bid ( this may be the cause of elevated liver function tests ) , Velosef 500 mg po qid times 7 days , Westcort Cream. 
Disposition is to home. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE is good. 
FOLLOW-UP care is to be provided by Dr. Douglass N. Pettinger at the Pagham University Of , and Dr. Lacy Mcausland in the Division of Gastroenterology at the Pagham University Of . 
________________________________ JZ380/1408 SACHIKO S. BORRIELLO , M.D. WP8 D: 9/17/90 Batch: 9243 Report: X3949N4 T: 5/11/90 Dictated By: SVETLANA S. SALLINGS , M.D. MX95 cc: SVETLANA S. SALLINGS , M.D. DOUGLASS N. PETTINGER , M.D.  LACY L. MCAUSLAND , M.D.