921778812 | PUO | 49448215 | | 3595863 | 10/23/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/23/2003 Date of Discharge: 10/23/2003 ATTENDING: MARILYN FREHSE MD The patient was on the Arvai Sonprince Hospital PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Small bowel obstruction. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 80-year-old woman with a past medical history of incarcerated umbilical hernia. 
She also has a history of coronary artery disease. 
She presented with one day of substernal chest pain , shortness of breath , and nausea. 
The patient has normal angina pain , which is usually treated with nitroglycerin , but she had run out. 
The chest pain had resolved with nitroglycerin given in the ambulance. 
The patient also complained of having abdominal pain for the past few days with some nausea. 
Her last bowel movement was two days before admission with no flatus for the past two days as well. 
The abdominal pain was worst today. 
The patient was felt to have a partial small bowel obstruction in the emergency room and was evaluated by both the surgical service and the medical service. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Incarcerated umbilical hernia and a mitral valve replacement with a St. Jude valve in 1990. 
She had coronary artery disease with a clean catheterization in 2001 , hypertension , diabetes , diverticulitis , status post a sigmoid colectomy , and atrial fibrillation controlled with Coumadin 3.5 mg q.d. 
MEDICATIONS: Lasix 80 mg q.d. , Glyburide 5 mg q.d. , Lisinopril 20 mg q.d. , Norvasc 10 mg q.d. , Coumadin 3.5 mg q.d. , Isordil 20 mg three times a day , amiodarone 200 mg once a day. 
ALLERGIES: She has allergies to aspirin , penicillin , and sotalol. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives alone with no smoking and no alcohol use. 
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAM: Vital signs: Temperature was 96.8 , heart rate was 76 , respiratory rate was 18 , blood pressure 152/79 , O2 saturation was 94% on two liters. 
In general , she was in no acute distress and pleasant. 
Cardiovascular exam: She had an irregular rhythm with audible S1 and S2. No S3 was heard. 
No murmurs. 
No jugular venous distension. 
Chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Her abdomen had increased bowel sounds , was tympanitic , was diffusely tender. 
Her extremities had no edema. 
LABS: She had a white blood cell count of 14 , hematocrit of 42 , platelets of 221 , 000 , sodium of 144 , potassium of 4 , chloride of 109 , bicarb of 28 , BUN of 20 , creatinine of 1.6 , blood glucose of 200 , troponin I was less than assay , CK was 118 , INR of 2.6. 
KUB x-ray showed dilated loops of small bowel consistent with small bowel obstruction. 
EKG showed atrial fibrillation at 78 beats per minute with an incomplete right bundle branch block , an old inferior MI with loss of anterior fossa. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient's abdominal pain was most likely due to small bowel obstruction secondary to a ventral hernia. 
It was decided by the surgical service that the ventral hernia should be fixed operatively. 
The medical service evaluated the patient , decided that her chest pain was her normal baseline angina and she had no acute coronary syndrome at the time of admission. 
Recommendations were made to discontinue her Coumadin , allow her INR to fall to 1.8 before operating. 
The patient was also to be given generous boluses of normal saline preoperatively to avoid hypotension and tight blood sugar control during her hospital course. 
The patient was admitted to the medical floor before her operation and was scheduled for ventral hernia repair several days later. 
During her stay on the surgical ward , the patient had developed complaints of new visual changes described as objects of floating in her visual field. 
At this point , a CT scan of the head was done to rule out an acute cerebral avascular accident. 
Head CT was initially read as normal. 
No acute bleed. 
However re-read as showing a left-sided sub acute thalamic infarct of 10 days to 2 weeks age. 
At this point , a neurological consultation was obtained. 
The neurology consultant recommended an MRI/MRA of the head and neck to evaluate for possible hidden acute stroke and a carotid ultrasound to assess her carotid artery patency. 
The MRI/MRA of her head was negative , a carotid ultrasound was done which was also negative with no lesions similar to her previous carotid artery ultrasound of 10/1 A transthoracic echocardiogram was also done to evaluate for atrial clots. 
Her echocardiogram was largely unchanged from her previous echocardiogram of 2002. 
She had normal left ventricular function with an ejection fraction of 55% and moderate tricuspid regurgitation. 
Given this negative workup for any acute stroke , it was decided to obtain an ophthalmology consult to evaluate the patient's visual changes. 
The ophthalmology consultant attributed her visual changes to vitreous humor particulate matter , which is very common in older people. 
It was most likely the cause of her visual changes. 
The ophthalmology consultant recommended q.d. 
Pred Forte drops in each eye for her status post corneal transplant. 
The patient was finally taken to the operating room on hospital day 7 for ventral hernia repair. 
The operation was uncomplicated with minimal blood loss. 
Postoperatively , the patient's course progressed well with good pain control , good progression of diet and good ambulation. 
Postoperatively , the patient was restarted on Coumadin and placed on IV heparin for prophylaxis secondary to her mitral valve prosthetic. 
The patient remained in the hospital for seven days after her operation for adequate anticoagulation with Coumadin. 
On postop day 3 , the patient was noticed to have bright red blood in her urine. 
A urological consult was obtained for evaluation of gross hematuria. 
CAT scan showed several centimeters of calcified bladder wall , which is indicative of infection versus tumor. 
However no gross tumor mass was observed and the remainder of her collecting system was normal. 
The urological consult recommended follow up in Urology Clinic in two to four weeks. 
The patient was then discharged on postop day 7 to the Sa Pehall for continued physical therapy. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. , vitamin B12 15 mcg p.o. q.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , glipizide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , Isordil 20 mg p.o. t.i.d. , lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Pred Forte Ophthalmic one drop each eye q.d. for seven days , vitamin B6 50 mg p.o. q.d. , Coumadin 7.5 mg q.p.m. , Norvasc 10 mg p.o. q.d. 
DISPOSITION: The patient will follow up with Dr. Frehse in Surgery Clinic in one week and the patient will follow up in Urology Clinic in two to four weeks. 
eScription document: 7-5032989 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: BARRETTE , GENNY Attending: FREHSE , MARILYN Dictation ID 3911210 D: 11/11/03 T: 11/11/03