647903858 | PUO | 76033503 | | 2951560 | 3/2/2007 12:00:00 AM | PREGNANCY , 6 WEEKS DIABETIC | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/27/2007 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 5/27/2007 ATTENDING: ASTILLERO , CHERY MD SERVICE: Obstetrics/Maternal Fetal Medicine. 
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. Pre-gestational diabetes. 
2. History of coronary artery disease. 
3. Recurrent SABs 4. Hepatitis B. HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 36-year-old G16 , P0-0-15-0 , who presented at 6 and 4/7 weeks by LMP consistent with ultrasound of the day of admission , as a transfer from the High-Risk Obstetric Clinic , admitted to the Fuller Antepartum Service for diabetic control. 
The patient had presented to the Special OB Clinic as a new patient for prenatal care. 
Review of her medical problems revealed that the recent glucose control had been suboptimal. 
In view of this and in view of the fact that the patient had multiple other issues , the patient was admitted for diabetic control , adjustment of her insulin regimen and evaluation regarding the other medical problems. 
History of present pregnancy: the patient had a last menstrual period in the second week of October . 
Ultrasound on the day of admission , 9/5/07 , revealed a 6.6-week intrauterine pregnancy with a fetal heart rate of 110. 
The estimated date of confinement is 4/19/07. 
Prenatal screening labs were pending at the time of admission. 
The patient has blood group O +ve. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient has a history of ST elevation myocardial infarction in 2000. 
The infarct was a presumed embolism to the left anterior descending and the left circumflex coronary artery. 
The complete occlusion of the mid-to-distal left anterior descending artery , which was thought to be due to thrombosis , was treated with TPA and angioplasty. 
The patient had a normal catheterization in October 2000. 
The last echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 45% in 2002; however , the patient never had a repeat echo since that time. 
On the day of admission , the patient reported that she was able to climb four flights of stairs to her apartment , haveing to pause after two flights of stairs to catch her breath. 
In addition , the patient has a history of diabetes mellitus , diagnosed in 2000. 
The patient had a medical admission in 2006 for hypoglycemia when she incidentally injected Humalog instead of Lantus. 
On the day of admission , the patient was on a Humalog 7 units b.i.d. and Lantus 12 units in the evening. 
Her fasting sugars were in the 150s before admission and her blood sugar measurements were over 200 in the evening. 
On the day of admission , the fasting sugar was 123. 
In addition , the patient has a history of hepatitis B , diagnosed in 2005. 
The patient had a positive E antigen in 2005. 
She had previously been on Epivir 150 mg p.o. daily , but this was stopped prior to the current pregnancy. 
PAST OB/GYN HISTORY: The patient has a history of a fibroid uterus , and a history of recurrent miscarriages. 
In terms of the fibroid uterus , the patient did report pelvic pain in the outpatient setting. 
Ultrasound had shown an 8-10 cm dominant posterior fibroid. 
The patient occasionally takes oxycodone for fibroid pain. 
In terms of the patient's recurrent miscarriages , the patient had fifteen SABs in the past with over 10 dilatation and evacuations , including one molar pregnancy with subsequent choriocarcinoma. 
All losses were in the first trimester , less than 12 weeks' gestation. 
The patient had been evaluated previously for a thrombophilia workup , but this had been negative multiple times aside from a MTHFR gene mutation , which was noted on this admission , and it is unclear whether this has been addressed previously. 
The patient had previously been told by a reproductive endocrinologist , that she should consider adoption or a gestational carrier. 
Chromosomes on several pathology specimens from the previous abortions showed aneuploidy. 
The patient currently denies a history of sexually transmitted infections. 
She has a history of cervical dysplasia , with a history of CIN I and CIN II in 1990 and 1992. 
She underwent a LEEP in 1992 , which was consistent with HSIL. 
All subsequent Pap smears were either within normal limits. 
Last Pap smear done in February 2006 at Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of was insufficient for analysis. 
In terms of the patient's history of choriocarcinoma , the patient had a molar pregnancy , which then developed into a subsequent choriocarcinoma. 
For this , the patient was treated with methotrexate , actinomycin D and Cytoxan , then VP-16 , cisplatin and bleomycin with presumed cure. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Dilatation and evacuation x10 , hysteroscopy for infertility workup , and LEEP. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Humalog Insulin 7 units twice a day , Lantus 12 units in the evening , aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily stopped prior to pregnancy , history of lamivudine/Epivir use , 150 daily stopped prior to current pregnancy. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Former smoker , given up smoking in 2000 after a myocardial infarct. 
No history of alcohol abuse or IV drug use. 
The patient lives in Van Lanel with her boyfriend , unemployed. 
Father with coronary artery disease in his 50s. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted for the primary purpose of diabetic control. 
1. Diabetes mellitus. 
The patient had reported poor diabetic control as an outpatient. 
Therefore , her regimen was continued , with the addition of a sliding scale , in order to determine the additional insulin needs as an outpatient. 
Over the course of the admission , the patient's Lantus was increased to 20 units at nighttime , and she was using 8 units three times a day of insulin lispro , in addition to a lispro sliding scale. 
With this regimen , the fingerstick glucose control improved , and the fasting blood sugar on the day of discharge was 90. 
On the day prior to discharge , the patient had blood sugars in the range from 93 to 139. 
An HbA1c was sent , which was 6.7 , during this admission , the patient also had a Nutrition consult. 
She will be followed in the High-Risk Obstetric and Diabetic Clinic by Dr. Wikins 2. Cardiology. 
The patient was restarted on her aspirin , given her history of myocardial infarct at a very early age. 
In addition , an echocardiogram was obtained on the day after admission. 
This revealed an ejection fraction of 50% as well as a large left ventricular thrombosis , which was presumed to be a longstanding. 
Cardiology was consulted and the impression was that the thrombosis was likely a combination of her left ventricular hypokinesia related to the previous infarct , as well as her hypercoagulable state. 
Therefore , their recommendation was to start the patient on Lovenox for the duration of this pregnancy , which adjusted for her weight was a dose of 90 mg daily , followed by a transition to Coumadin postpartum , to be continued for likely long-term , possibly lifelong duration. 
The Cardiology Consult Team noted that the MTHFR mutation had not resulted in elevated homocysteine levels in the past. 
However , they did agree that folate supplementation at high doses was indicated. 
The patient will be continued on Lovenox 90 mg daily subcutaneously , and aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily as an outpatient. 
She will have Cardiology followup with Dr. Brooke Lemmen on 3/6/07. 
During the entire admission , she was hemodynamically stable , in sinus rhythm , with no complaints of chest pain , shortness of breath or palpitations. 
3. Hepatitis B. The patient had liver function tests and a hepatitis panel on this admission , given her history of active disease diagnosed in 2005 , with a positive hepatitis E antigen. 
On admission , the patient had not been on Epivir , which had been stopped prior to this current pregnancy. 
Liver function tests were checked on this admission and were within normal limits. 
In addition , serologies were checked and the hepatitis E antigen and the E antibody was negative. 
Hepatitis B surface antigen and hepatitis B core antigen were reactive. 
At the time of this dictation , a hepatitis B viral load was pending. 
Given the patient's history of hepatitis B , an outpatient appointment was being arranged at the time of discharge , with Dr. Banegas , from the Division of Gastroenterology at the Pagham University Of . 
It was decided that the patient should not take any lamivudine until Gastroenterology followup. 
During the entire hospital stay , the patient did not have any GI complaints , was tolerating a regular diet , and having normal regular bowel movements. 
4. history of fibroids , the patient was noted again to have an 8-cm fibroid on her ultrasound scan. 
She required rare intermittent doses of oxycodone as required for pain , which was presumed to be related to her fibroid uterus. 
5. Prenatal care. 
The patient had her first trimester labs sent on this admission. 
GC and chlamydia testing were negative. 
Urine culture was negative. 
The patient was O +ve. 
Given the patient's history of MTHFR mutation and the recurrent SABs , the patient was started on prenatal vitamins , as well as high-dose folic acid , B12 and B6. 
In view of the patient's diabetic history , and a transiently elevated creatinine to 1.2 on hospital day 2 , which went back to 0.7 on the day of discharge , the patient had a 24-hour urine collection sent , this returned negative at 92 mg per 24 hours. 
It was noted that the patient had an Ophthalmology retinal exam at an outside hospital health center this year. 
For the remainder of this pregnancy , it was noted that the patient will require ultrasounds at 11 and 17 weeks , as well as a fetal echo , and the recommended testing for pre-gestational diabetics for the remainder of the pregnancy. 
The patient was discharged in a stable condition , with followup appointments arranged for the various specialties. 
DISPOSITION: Home without services. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily. 
2. Lovenox subcutaneously 90 mg daily. 
3. Vitamin B12 100 mcg p.o. daily. 
4. Folate 4 mg p.o. daily. 
5. Prenatal vitamins one tablet p.o. daily. 
6. Lantus 20 units subcutaneously q.p.m.. 7. Insulin lispro 8 units subcutaneously AC , as well as lispro sliding scale , in addition a AC. FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENTS: 1. Special OB on 1/5/07. 
2. Dr. Smithmyer , Endocrinology on 1/5/07. 
3. Dr. Nina Surace , Cardiology , on 3/6/07. 
4. Dr. Banegas , Gastroenterology , the patient will receive letter with the appointment from GI Clinic. 
eScription document: 5-9926778 CSSten Tel Dictated By: SUGIMOTO , ARDELL Attending: ASTILLERO , CHERY Dictation ID 2426054 D: 7/28/07 T: 7/28/07