736473937 | PUO | 87757880 | | 041080 | 8/14/1996 12:00:00 AM | NEW ONSET ATRIAL FIBRILLATION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/17/1996 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/27/1996 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: SUPRAVENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA/PAROXYSMAL ATRIAL FIBRILLATION. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 54 year old man status post AVR admitted for tachycardia. 
Patient is a 54 year old with history of high blood pressure and status post aortic valve replacement with homograft for chronic AI from bicuspid aortic valve. 
His postoperative course was complicated by prolonged fevers , he had multiple blood cultures drawn and only one culture grew Hemophilus parahaemolyticus in the sputum , and only one out of many blood cultures grew coagulase negative Staphylococcus. 
He was discharged from the surgical service on July , 1996 on Lopressor and Percocet. 
He was sent home feeling well except for persistent low grade temperatures. 
One day prior to admission , patient had mild shortness of breath but denied orthopnea and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea with no chest pain. 
He awoke the morning of admission with no complaints but was found by VNA to have a rapid heart rate and was sent to the Emergency Room. 
Patient denied shortness of breath , dyspnea on exertion , cough , pleuritic chest pain , dizziness , and palpitations. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Included: 1 ) Status post AVR for AI from bicuspid aortic valve as above. 
2 ) History of polio in 1955. 
3 ) Hypertension. 4 ) History of knee surgery. 
ALLERGIES: He had no known drug allergies. 
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Lopressor 25 b.i.d. and enteric coated aspirin 325 a day. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: He was married with children , worked in the clothing industry , and denied cigarette and alcohol use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He was a healthy appearing male alert in no apparent distress. 
Temperature was 99.1 , blood pressure 118/70 , pulse of 90 , and 97% O2 saturations on two liters of oxygen. 
HEENT: Oropharynx was clear with pupils equally round and reactive to light and extraocular movements intact. 
NECK: Supple with no lymphadenopathy , no jugular venous distention , and carotids were 2+ bilaterally with no bruits. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: Regular rate and rhythm without murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
ABDOMEN: Soft , good bowel sounds , nontender , nondistended , and no hepatosplenomegaly. 
RECTAL: Examination was negative for blood. 
EXTREMITIES: No edema. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Examination was nonfocal. 
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission , SMA 7 significant for potassium of 4.6 , BUN of 19 , and creatinine 0.9 , white count was 10 , hematocrit of 33.6 , platelet count of 377 , PT 13.8 with INR of 1.3 , and PTT of 23.6. 
Chest x-ray showed no infiltrate and no effusion. 
EKG showed atrial flutter at 156 , borderline left ventricular hypertrophy initially then after 5 mg of intravenous Verapamil , he converted to atrial fibrillation at 100 , and there were no specific ST-T wave changes. 
He also underwent VQ scan which showed high intermediate probability scan. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the cardiology B service for management of atrial fibrillation/atrial flutter and question of pulmonary embolus. 
He was heparinized and was continued on Lopressor for rate control. 
He was placed on cardiac monitor. 
In addition because of the low grade fevers , more blood cultures were obtained. 
He underwent a PA gram on January , 1996 which showed no evidence of pulmonary embolism , normal right heart pressures , and bibasilar subsegmental atelectasis. 
Patient was begun on Coumadin and he was also seen by infectious disease consultation who felt that he should be off all antibiotics. 
He also underwent a transesophageal echo on January , 1996 which showed mildly dilated left ventricle with low normal systolic function , aortic homograft with no vegetation or fluid collection around the annulus , trace aortic insufficiency was present , mitral valve was mildly thickened with 1+ mitral regurgitation but no obvious vegetations , tricuspid and pulmonic valves were normal with no vegetations , and left atrium was also normal with no thrombus. 
Patient continued to have low grade fevers with no obvious evidence of infection and infectious disease consultation service suggested that patient be discharged to home off all antibiotics and be followed closely at home with instructions to return to the hospital with any signs of increasing fevers , chills , or any problems with the incision site. 
DISPOSITION: Patient is discharged to home on May , 1996 in good condition. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , diltiazem 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , and Coumadin 10 mg p.o. q.d. 
FOLLOW-UP: Patient has follow-up with Dr. Fournier Dictated By: KEN WESTFALL , M.D. AK5 Attending: SHAVONNE D. MAINER , M.D. QP3 SA851/2148 Batch: 14349 Index No. LNBF834IQD D: 11/10/97 T: 6/10/97