288431774 | PUO | 41739484 | | 3376748 | 3/28/2005 12:00:00 AM | PULMONARY EMBOLISM | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/8/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 8/8/2005 ATTENDING: ISABELLE EVON COLASAMTE MD This discharge summary summarizes his Intensive Care Unit course from March , 2005 to July , 2005. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Briefly , Mr. Harajly is a 69-year-old African-American male who is postoperative day 11 from a reoperative aortic valve replacement and mitral valve repair for endocarditis. 
His postoperative course was complicated by Mobitz's type II heart block and long sinuses pauses for which he was transferred to the ICU on account of snow storm making staffing issues difficult to take care of him on the floor. 
He remained in the Intensive Care Unit one day. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: His Intensive Care Unit course by system is: 1. Neurologic: The patient was complaining of pain at his Quintin catheter insertion site for which he was treated with oxycodone. 
2. Cardiovascular: The patient was initially transferred to the Intensive Care Unit with bradycardia and Mobitz's type II heart block and 6-7 second sinus pauses. 
He was asymptomatic for all of these events with good hemodynamics. 
However , given the large snow storm and short staffing , it was felt that he would be better off in the Intensive Care Unit for closer monitoring. 
He had no major issues in the Intensive Care Unit. 
He was switched from labetalol and amlodipine as well as his beta blocker eye drops so as to not exacerbate his heart block. 
He did have some difficult to control hypertension which was treated with hydralazine which was titrated up to 80 q.i.d. with good result. 
In addition , he was maintained on Losartan and Lisinopril. 
He was followed by the Electrophysiology Service who came to the conclusion that the patient does need a permanent pacemaker; however , the issue of when and how to place the pacemaker has yet to be resolved as the patient has difficult venous access issues given his multiple clotted AV fistulas and poor venous access sites. 
The Electrophysiology Service and Dr. Colasamte are in the process of deciding what the best approach for his pacemaker is. 
Hew as in a sinus rhythm with occasional asymptomatic bradycardia in the 40s but otherwise stable rhythm. 
3. Respiratory: No issues. 
4. GI: He is on a renal diet which he tolerated. 
He is also on a bowel regimen and on 2 liter fluid restriction per the Renal Team. 5. Renal: The patient is followed by renal medicine. 
He is anuric and he is dialyzed Saturday , Tuesday , Thursday. 
He had no acute renal issues although his potassium was somewhat on the high side between 4.8 and 5.0 but trended down by the next day. 
He was followed by the Vascular Surgery Service who have determined that his right AV fistula is not salvageable. 
They plan to do a left AV fistula on an outpatient basis once the patient's current cardiac issues have resolved and he is discharged from the hospital. 
6. Endocrine: No issues. 
7. Heme: No issues. 
The patient is on an aspirin 81 mg a day. 
8. ID: The patient came in to the Intensive Care Unit on Vancomycin , Gentamicin and Rifampin for presumed endocarditis although all of his cultures have been negative. 
He has continued on these in the hospital. 
He is afebrile without a white count. 
eScription document: 5-8753849 DBSSten Tel Dictated By: ZITZOW , NICOLAS MERRIE Attending: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON Dictation ID 8985776 D: 6/11/05 T: 6/11/05