281676199 | PUO | 45516411 | | 013643 | 11/23/2000 12:00:00 AM | ABDOMINAL PAIN | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/6/2000 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 6/9/2000 SERVICE: Ne PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Pyelonephritis. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: Urinary tract infection. 
Bilateral adnexal masses. 
Diabetes mellitus. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ethelyn Athmann is a 53 year old woman with a history of diabetes mellitus who presents with abdominal pain and fevers over two weeks duration. 
Two weeks prior to admission , the patient had headaches , nausea , vomiting , presyncope , anorexia with mild periumbilical pain. 
She also had fevers to 101 degrees F. with associated chills and diaphoresis. 
The patient presented to her primary care physician three days before admission and was found to have elevated liver function tests with AST of 39 , ALT of 108. 
At that time , the patient was presumed to have a viral syndrome. 
Two days prior to admission , the patient developed worsening abdominal pain. 
The pain was described as sharp , constant in character with radiation to the back. 
The pain was more intense in the right lower quadrant. 
The pain was also noted to be in the lower flanks and the costovertebral angle area. 
The patient has noted no change in her usual bowel habits of one stool per week. 
She has had no diarrhea , constipation , melena , or hematochezia. 
She has had no hematemesis. 
She denies any urinary symptoms but only has nocturia. 
Of note , the patient had menopause approximately eight years ago , but in each of the last three months she has noticed monthly vaginal bleeding which she believes are a resumption of menstrual cycles. 
The last episode was about one month ago. 
The patient also has a history of nephrolithiasis but feels that this current pain is different from the one she has had in the past. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension , diabetes mellitus diagnosed two years ago , obesity , obstructive sleep apnea , nephrolithiasis , osteoarthritis , glaucoma. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Notable for cesarean section 20 years ago that was complicated by pulmonary embolism. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Lasix 60 mg q day. 
2. Glyburide 5 mg q day. 
3. Labetalol 200 mg b.i.d. 4. Timoptic , Xylatan drops for glaucoma. 
ALLERGIES: Lidocaine leads to rash. 
Lisinopril leads to cough. 
Diltiazem leads to edema. 
Nifedipine leads to edema. 
Intravenous contrast leads to hives. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is married and has two children. 
She denies any use of alcohol or tobacco. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 102 , heart rate 90 , respiratory rate 34 , blood pressure 143/48. 
Oxygen saturation 91% on 2 liters nasal cannula. 
HEENT: Pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation. 
Extraocular muscles intact. 
Anicteric sclerae. 
Oropharynx clear. 
No jugular venous distension. 
CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. 
Normal S1 , S2 , no murmurs. 
ABDOMEN: Obese and fairly firm. 
Diffusely tender to palpation. 
Increased right lower quadrant pain. 
Rebound tenderness and mild guarding. 
Bowel sounds are present but decreased. 
BACK: No costovertebral angle tenderness. 
CERVIX: Cervical motion tenderness is present. 
NEUROLOGIC: The patient is alert and oriented x3. 
LABORATORY: Chemistries revealed sodium 132 , potassium 4.2 , chloride 94 , CO2 32 , BUN 13 , creatinine 1. Glucose 315 , calcium 9.9. 
Liver function tests showed ALT 58 , AST 23 , ALK 127 , total bilirubin 1.2 , albumin 4.6 , globulin 3.1 , amylase 28 , lipase 145 , total protein 7.7. 
The complete blood cell count revealed a white blood cell count of 23.91 , hemoglobin 14.1 , hematocrit 41.8 , platelets 520. 
The differential showed 77 polys , 7 bands , 6 lymphocytes , and 6 monocytes. 
The urinalysis was notable for pH 5.5 , protein 1+ , glucose 1+ , leukocytes 1+ , nitrite positive , trace ketones , and no blood. 
Sediments showed white blood cells 45 - 50 , 4+ bacteria , 1+ squamous epithelial cells , 1 - 2 casts. 
Abdominal CT was notable for a 7 x 8 cm low density fluid collection in the region of the right adnexa and a 4 x 8 cm low density fluid collection in the left adnexa. 
A UCG was negative. 
PROCEDURES: September , 2000 , endometrial biopsy. 
The procedure was limited due to the patient's body habitus. 
The biopsy revealed no evidence of malignancy. 
Complications none. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: By systems: 1. GENITOURINARY. 
The patient's presenting symptoms and abdominal CT findings of bilateral adnexal masses were suspicious for a tubo-ovarian abscess. 
However , the patient did not have any of the associated risk factors , given that the patient is not sexually active and denied introducing any foreign objects into the vagina. 
The patient was initially managed on triple antibiotics , ampicillin , gentamicin , and Clindamycin. 
Since a CT scan is not the optimal test to evaluate the adnexa , a transvaginal ultrasound was ordered which revealed endometrial thickness of 3.6 mm and bilateral cystic masses. 
The patient's right upper quadrant pain and tenderness persisted for several days during the admission with periodic exacerbations and was increasingly suspicious for cholelithiasis or pancreatitis. 
The patient then had an abdominal ultrasound which was essentially was within normal limits and showed no abnormal viscera. 
The bilateral adnexal masses continued to be of major concern , and interventional radiology was consulted for possible aspiration. 
Given that the etiology of the masses was unclear and the risk of malignancy in a post menopausal woman , it was decided that the best approach would be open tissue sampling. 
It was then decided to postpone this procedure pending further evaluation of the patient. 
Of note , the patient had a CA-125 drawn which 77. Serum HCG was negative. 
The patient's report of new onset of post menopausal bleeding was concerning. 
Considering the high likelihood of malignancy , the patient was being followed by the gynecology oncology service and underwent endometrial biopsy for tissue sampling. 
The biopsy revealed no evidence of malignancy. 
The patient had a repeat CT scan on hospital day number seven which was essentially unchanged from admission showing persistent bilateral adnexal masses and no free fluid. 
The patient's symptoms of right lower quadrant pain persisted but became more responsive to treatment toward the end of the admission. 
Throughout the admission the actual etiology of the bilateral adnexal masses was never discerned. 
As a result , the patient was referred to the gynecology oncology service for continued follow up as an outpatient. 
2. INFECTIOUS DISEASE. 
The patient's presentation of fevers , chills , and diaphoresis was certainly suspicious for infectious process. 
Initially the patient was covered with ampicillin , gentamicin , and Clindamycin for empiric antimicrobial coverage. 
The urine culture was notable for greater than 100 , 000 Escherichia coli which was pan sensitive. 
All blood cultures at initial presentation had been negative. 
On October , the creatinine level increased to 1.8. 
As a result , gentamicin was then switched to Levofloxacin. 
The patient's fever initially defervesced from 102.2 to 99.3 , but spiked to 100.1 after six days of antibiotics. 
Her white blood cell count remained elevated and ranged from 24 to 32. However , by discharge the white blood cell count was 10. 
Because of the patient's initial minimal response to antibiotics , repeat blood cultures and urine cultures were sent which were negative. 
In addition , ID was consulted to provide further guidance regarding antimicrobial management. 
They recommended to continue ampicillin and Levofloxacin. 
Clindamycin was changed to Flagyl. 
By discharge , the patient was afebrile. 
3. CARDIOVASCULAR. 
By hospital day number two , the patient was noted to have increased lower extremity swelling and new bibasilar crackles. 
The symptoms were suggestive of volume overload and possibly congestive heart failure. 
A chest x-ray was notable for bilateral atelectasis in the lower lobes but no pulmonary edema or pleural effusions. 
A cardiac echocardiogram revealed normal systolic function with ejection fraction of approximately 60% and mild left ventricular hypertrophy. 
The patient was treated with Lasix and was aggressively diuresed. 
She responded well to treatment. 
4. NEUROLOGIC. 
The patient presented with abdominal pain and was initially with Demerol and Vistaril. 
Initially the patient was only minimally responsive to treatment , but over time she became more responsive. 
By discharge , the patient was without pain. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Lasix 60 mg p.o. q.i.d. 
Glyburide 5 mg p.o. q day. 
Labetalol 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
Flagyl 500 mg p.o. q 8 hours. 
Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q 24 hours. 
Xalatan 1 drop OU q p.m. Timoptic 0.5% 1 drop OS q day. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home and required no services. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient was advised to call her primary care physician for fevers greater than 100.5 , chills , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain. 
The patient was also advised to take her temperature every day. 
The patient was scheduled to follow up with her primary care physician in one week. 
She will also follow up with the gynecology oncology service for further evaluation of bilateral adnexal masses and post menopausal bleeding. 
Dictated By: TROOP , TWILA SADIE ERICA Attending: AVRIL F. TAPLIN , M.D. QI3 FW138/9274 Batch: 58545 Index No. JDSHEA4HI4 D: 5/11 T: 5/11