474382460 | PUO | 05214753 | | 632613 | 1/20/1998 12:00:00 AM | STATUS POST MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/7/1998 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/2/1998 DIAGNOSES: 1. MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION. 2. HERPES ZOSTER. 
BRIEF HISTORY: The patient is an 80-year-old man with a history of coronary artery disease , who was transferred to I Warho Hospital two days following an acute myocardial infarction , for post myocardial infarction management. 
The patient has known coronary artery disease , and is status post myocardial infarction in 1998. 
At this time he underwent a two-vessel CABG with a saphenous vein graft to the RCA and to the LAD. 
Since then , he claims that he has done very well with rare angina ( approximately two times a year ) which responds well to sublingual nitroglycerin. 
He underwent an exercise treadmill test in 1997 , that showed inferolateral ST depressions with exercise , that were considered non-diagnostic , secondary to LVH and some resting EKG abnormalities. 
On August , the patient noted 10 out of 10 chest pain while walking with his family. 
He took sublingual nitroglycerin times three with no relief. 
He was taken to Thasstoncheripigapema Memorial Hospital where an EKG showed ST depressions in leads V2 through V4 , and T wave flattening in V1 and V5. He also had T wave inversions in V2 through V4. 
The patient was treated with intravenous heparin , intravenous nitroglycerin , and beta blockers. 
He remained pain free after this treatment. 
He eventually developed a Q wave in V1. During his hospitalization at Mery Hospital , the patient was noted to have an 11 beat run of V-tach on August , and was started on a lidocaine drip. 
The lidocaine drip was stopped on September , and the intravenous nitroglycerin was weaned. 
He was placed on nitro paste on September , and his intravenous heparin was then stopped on January . 
The patient was transferred to I Warho Hospital on January because he preferred to receive his care from his primary cardiologist. 
He denies having any chest pain since his initial pain on the seventh. 
He also denies shortness of breath , orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , swelling , nausea , vomiting , or diaphoresis. 
He has been tolerating a regular diet. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Coronary artery disease status post MI in 1998 , and two-vessel CABG in 1998. 
2. Exercise induced atrial fibrillation noted in 1990 with no recurrence. 
3. Prostate carcinoma status post prostatectomy in 1986. 
4. Malaria in 1944. 
MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q.d. , atenolol 25 mg q.d. , nitro paste started at the outside hospital. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient was recently widowed approximately two months ago , and has been grieving. 
He is close with his daughter. 
He denies any use of tobacco or alcohol. 
CARDIAC RISK FACTORS: No tobacco , no hypertension , no family history of significant cardiac disease , and no known history of hypercholesterolemia. PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He was a pleasant elderly man in no acute distress , who was sitting up in bed. 
Vital signs: the patient was afebrile with blood pressure 115/60. 
Heart rate was 67. Respiration was 18. Room air saturation was 94%. 
HEENT exam showed the patient to be anicteric , with intact extraocular movements , and moist mucus membranes. 
The neck was supple with jugular venous pressure noted , approximately 8 centimeters. 
The chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally with no rales or wheezes. 
The coronary exam showed regular rate and rhythm , with a 1/6 midsystolic murmur at the left sternal border , and no S3. 
The abdominal examination showed a flat abdomen with active bowel sounds , and a well-healed midline low abdominal scar consistent with his prior prostatectomy. 
No masses or hepatosplenomegaly were noted. 
The extremity exam showed no edema , with 2+ femoral and posterior tibial pulses bilaterally , and 1+ dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally. 
On neurologic exam , the patient was alert and oriented times three with cranial nerves III through XII intact and symmetric. 
The motor examination was 5/5 throughout , with 1+ deep tendon reflexes and downgoing toes bilaterally. 
LABORATORIES AT THE OUTSIDE HOSPITAL: CPK at admission was 2611 , with an MB fraction of 260. 
Sodium 139 , potassium 4.9 , chloride 100 , CO2 30 , BUN 20 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose 123. 
The white blood cell count was 8.4 , with a hematocrit of 40 , and platelets of 160. 
LDH is 162. 
AST is 26. 
The EKG showed normal sinus rhythm , with normal intervals. 
The prior ST depressions had resolved , and there were Q waves in V1 and V2. 
The T waves were flattened in V5 and V6. HOSPITAL COURSE: Cardiac: the patient remained off of his heparin drip and on his nitro paste , and had no further episodes of chest pain or shortness of breath. 
He underwent an echocardiogram , which revealed an ejection fraction of 45 to 50% , and posterior/lateral hypokinesis in the left ventricle. 
There were no valvular abnormalities. 
Because the patient had no further episodes of chest pain , he did not undergo further evaluation , and was discharged home. 
The plan is for him to undergo another exercise test in approximately 3 to 4 weeks. 
ID: The patient developed a temperature of 101.1 on his first day of admission. 
He presented with a Foley catheter in place , which was removed. 
A urinalysis and culture were negative. 
Blood cultures were drawn and were negative , and a chest x-ray was normal as well. 
On hospital day number three , the patient was noted to have a non-pruritic , non-painful , erythematous rash on the back of his lower right buttock and the back of his right leg. 
The patient claimed that this rash was completely asymptomatic , and he would not know about it if no one had pointed it out. 
On hospital day number four , it was noted that this rash had filled up a dermatomal pattern on the back of his right leg , and it was felt that this most likely represented an acute outbreak of herpes zoster. 
The patient was not treated specifically for herpes , given that he was asymptomatic , and we did not have any proven diagnosis. 
However , we were confident enough of this that we felt that it would explain his low grade temperatures. 
Psych: The patient spoke openly about his sadness following the loss of his wife , two months ago. 
He was seen by Social Services , as well as by the Survtheast Centex Health Care , who thought that the patient was appropriately grieving , and appropriately sad. 
It was felt that at the time of discharge , that the patient had proper social support at home , and was properly responding to the death of his wife. 
It was therefore felt that he did not need any acute psychiatric evaluation. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged home , in stable condition on hospital day four. 
He will follow-up with his cardiologist , Dr. Dario , in approximately 5 days. 
He will be seen by the Visiting Nurses Association , approximately two times a week , to check both his blood pressure and cardiac status , as well to help insure that he is not developing a more severe depression. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: The discharge medications include atenolol 25 mg p.o. q. a.m. and 12.5 mg p.o. q. p.m. , enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 2.5 mg p.o. q. evening , and Pravachol 10 mg p.o. q. h.s. 
The patient had been tolerating this regiment of medications at the time of discharge. 
Dictated By: GERALDO CONCILIO , M.D. SD91 Attending: CHRISTINE DARIO , M.D. AW87 IQ640/1341 Batch: 72059 Index No. GLTSWO1221 D: 2/13/98 T: 11/5/98