985342959 | PUO | 56964284 | | 910093 | 7/16/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/6/1995 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 11/12/1995 CHIEF COMPLAINT: SLURRED SPEECH AND RIGHT SIDED WEAKNESS HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 58 year old right handed female with a history of hypertension who was in her usual state of health until 10 a.m. when she noted , while in a seated position , after bending over to pick up articles from the floor , had a sudden headache described as a bifrontal burning sensation. 
Afterwards , she noted mucus from the nose which lasted two to three minutes. 
She thought it was a "sinus headache". 
Over the next half hour , she noticed while talking to her self , she had some slurred speech. 
She attempted to walk and found that the right side of her body felt "wobbly" and it was difficult to walk but she was able to walk into the kitchen and get a glass of water. 
The slurred speech and right side body weakness lasted for approximately one hour and improved until "normal levels". 
For approximately five to six hours later , the slurred speech returned and family members who arrived that her face was twisted and she had slurred speech , and that she had to lift her right leg up with her hands in order to get into the car. 
She ultimated that with the first event , she had headache and nausea only with the second event. 
She denied any vomiting or light headedness or dizziness. 
There was no visual change such as diplopia. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Occasional lower back pain and right foot surgery secondary to trauma. 
MEDICATION: Hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg p.o. q day. 
ALLERGIES; NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Tobacco; ten pack year history. 
There is no history of alcohol or intravenous drug abuse. 
The patient has three children , one son , two daughters , and she is currently married. 
She is currently unemployed and has a sixth grade education. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient appeared stated age. 
Vital signs showed a blood pressure of 158/108 , temperature of 98.2 , heart rate of 88 , respiratory rate 16. 
The neck was supple with meningismus. 
The lungs were clear. 
The heart showed a regular rate and rhythm without murmur. 
The abdomen was benign. 
The extremities showed no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema. 
On neurologic examination the patient was awake , alert , and oriented times three , attention with difficulty with days of the week , and month of the year. 
Speech was spontaneous and fluent with dysarthria. 
The patient refused to read or write. 
She has normal naming repetition , and comprehension. 
There was no right or left confusion. 
Calculation was poor , believed to be secondary to her poor educational status. 
The cranial nerves not tested. 
The bilateral visual fields were full , discs were sharp , fundus clear , pupils 4 mm reactive bilaterally to light and accommodation , and were consentual. 
There was positive nystagmus on right gaze. 
She has normal facial sensation with a right facial paresis in the upper motor neuron distribution. 
She had normal palate and uvula. 
Sternocleidomastoids were strong. 
The tongue was midline. 
On motor examination the patient had mild increased tone of her right body , no tremor and a positive drift of the right upper extremity. 
Strength of the left upper and lower extremities displayed 5/5 strength in all major muscle groups. 
The left upper extremity had upper motor neuron distribution weakness with decreased strength and upper extremity extensors with strength being 4 minus of the lower extremity with decreased flexor strength with EHL being 4 minus also. 
The deep tendon reflexes were slightly more brisk on the right with 2+ with out going right toe. 
The left upper extremity and right lower extremity were 2 and toe down going. 
Sensory exam was normal to light touch and pin prick , temperature , position , and normal double simultaneous stimulation. 
Coordination; The patient has normal finger to nose , heel to shin , and the right was not out of proportion to the weakness. 
Gait was remarkable for decreased swing , positive for circumduction on the right and Romberg was negative. 
LABORATORY DATA; Sodium 141 , potassium 3.6 , chloride 98 , Bicarb 26 , BUN and creatinine 9 and 0.6 respectively , glucose 104 , white count 7.3 , hematocrit 45.2 , hemoglobin 14.3 , platelets 250 , PT 12.9 , PTT 38.8 , MCV 86.4. 
CT of the brain was negative for any mass lesions noted; no shift , no hemorrhage , no lacune. 
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM showed normal sinus rhythm , 75; large left atrium with normal axis and intervals; no ST-T wave changes. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the neurology service and started on one aspirin per day. 
The patient was then ordered to have a cardiac echocardiogram and MRI of the head. 
Throughout her hospital course her clinical symptoms improved tremendously , and the patient proved that she was 90% of her baseline. 
MRI was remarkable for small pontine lacuna infarct on the left which corresponds highly with the patient's clinical examination. 
A cardiac echocardiogram was normal. 
MRA also showed small common carotid disease which will be followed up with carotid Doppler ultrasound as an outpatient. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to home. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Improved. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: hydrochlorothiazide 100 mg p.o. q day , aspirin 1 tablet p.o. q day. 
The patient is to follow up with myself in one month and to follow up with her primary care physician in two or three weeks. 
The patient is to have cardiac Doppler study of her neck on August , 1995 at 9:30 a.m. and she was advised to call for any problems or concerns regarding any component of her health care. 
FINAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. LEFT PONTINE STROKE 2. HYPERTENSION Dictated By: ROSANNE S. VERNET , M.D. PC92 Attending: CARA NEVA KENEKHAM , M.D. VQ6 QC025/7175 Batch: 8197 Index No. ERYEBS646G D: 7/21/95 T: 4/11/95