921778812 | PUO | 49448215 | | 398096 | 7/10/2001 12:00:00 AM | CERBRAL VASCULAR ACCIDENT | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/18/2001 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 2/1/2001 CHIEF COMPLAINT: LEFT LOWER EXTREMITY NUMBNESS. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Cristal Lippman is a 78-year-old African American female with a significant cardiac history , including hypertension , congestive heart failure , history of afib -- patient is on Coumadin , CAD , status post MI , mitral valve replacement in 1995 or so , who was in her usual state of health until the morning of admission , when she says she awoke in a sweat , had a headache , and noticed she could not stand. 
She felt that her left lower extremity was "asleep" and weak. 
She called 911 , came to KAAH . 
The patient also noted that her speech seemed slurred at the time that she was unable to get up. 
She denied any weakness or numbness in her other extremities or face. 
She denied any chest pain , shortness of breath , or visual changes. 
She says she did note transient heart palpitations. 
She denied fever , chills , nausea , and vomiting. 
In the ER the patient was noted to have 2/5 left lower extremity power. 
She had no apparent sensory deficits at that time. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As above , and including noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus , a status post left hip replacement , history of DVT , status post mitral valve replacement for mitral stenosis approximately eight years ago ( patient says she has a history of rheumatic fever ) , and bilateral cataracts. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Norvasc 10 mg q. day , amiodarone 200 mg q. day , Isordil 20 mg t.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg q. day , Coumadin 5 mg Monday , Wednesday , and Friday and 2.5 mg Tuesday , Thursday , Saturday , and Sunday , Lomotil 1-2 mg q.i.d. p.r.n. , glyburide 5 mg b.i.d. , and Prinivil 20 mg q. day. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Patient denied any history of tobacco , ethanol , or illicit drug use. 
She lives alone and says she is a very private person. 
She does all of her own activities of daily living and walks with a cane. 
She has a son that died of an MI as well. 
ALLERGIES: The patient has an allergy to penicillin , sulfa drugs , and aspirin. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As per HPI. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On being admitted to the hospital , the patient was afebrile at 97.4 degrees Fahrenheit , with a pulse of 68 , blood pressure of 190/90 , and satting 98% on room air. 
Patient's exam showed that she had no carotid bruits or JVD. 
Her heart exam was notable for a regular rate and rhythm , as well as prosthetic S1. 
Her lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally and abdominal exam was benign. 
Extremities showed cool fingers on the right , with a 1+ pulse , and warm well perfused fingers on the left , with a 2+ radial pulse. 
Apparently , these extremity changes are long-standing and not new. 
She had 2+ pulses in her posterior tibial pulses and trace pulses in her dorsalis pedes pulses bilaterally. 
On neuro exam the patient was alert and oriented x three. 
She exhibited good naming , comprehension , reading , and fluency. 
Cranial nerves II-XII were intact bilaterally. 
On motor exam the patient had 5/5 power everywhere except for the left lower extremity , with knee flexors , knee extensors , ankle flexors , and ankle extensors being 3+/5 and hip flexors and hip extensors being 4-/5. 
Her tone was slightly increased in her left lower extremity. 
On sensory exam she had slightly reduced sensation to pinprick , light touch , and temperature in both extremities to the hip. 
Deep tendon reflexes were symmetric and 2+ throughout , with downgoing toes bilaterally. 
Pertinent labs on admission showed a slightly increased creatinine at 1.7 and a BUN of 31. 
The patient had a TSH of 1.09 and a total cholesterol of 197 , with an LDL of 131. 
Her sed. 
rate was 14 and her hematocrit was 40.2. 
INR was noted to be 1.7. 
CKs were flat and the patient was ruled out for an MI. IMPRESSION: 1. Neurologic: Given the patient's significant cardiac history and subtherapeutic INR , it was considered that her left lower extremity weakness that was transient was likely a transient ischemic attack. 
The patient's motor deficits quickly improved over her hospital stay and she felt she was back to baseline on the day of discharge. 
Head CT and head MRI and MRA were negative for any acute changes , including hemorrhage and infarction. 
On MRA the patient was noted to have some proximal stenosis of her right intracranial carotid and had also some atherosclerotic changes of her PCAs bilaterally. 
The patient also had ATTE with a bubble study that was negative for PFO. 
The patient was continued on her Coumadin at 5 mg q.h.s. until her INR was therapeutic. 
During this interval she was started on heparin and was therapeutic on that. 
The patient is to follow up in the Coumadin clinic as well as neurology clinic in one month. 
She is to have her Coumadin drawn at three days after discharge to ensure that her INR is above 2. Her Coumadin dosing regimen was slightly changed , with her taking four doses of 5 mg a week and three doses of 2.5 mg a week. 
The patient was seen by physical therapy , who cleared her to go home and felt that she was okay to walk stairs with her walker. 
2. Cardiovascular: The patient has an extensive cardiac history as detailed above. 
Her systolic blood pressure was calculated between 120 and 160 during the first day of her hospital stay , as it was unclear whether she had a serious carotid stenosis or not. 
Her blood pressure meds were gradually added back. 
The patient had several episodes of atypical chest pain , for which she was ruled out with telemetry and enzymes , which were flat. 
3. Endocrine: The patient was placed on a diabetic diet and was continued on her glyburide. 
A hemoglobin A1C is pending at the time of this dictation. 
She was covered with sliding scale insulin during her hospital stay. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Amiodarone 200 mg q. day , Norvasc 10 mg q. day , Isordil 20 mg t.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg q. day , Coumadin 5 mg Monday , Wednesday , Friday , and Sunday , and 2.5 mg Tuesday , Thursday , and Saturday , glyburide 5 mg b.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg q. day , and Prinivil 20 mg q. day. 
Dictated By: PATTIE FLINSPACH , M.D. BX483 Attending: CLEVELAND BENNINGFIELD , M.D. BC8 XN988/677896 Batch: 63601 Index No. KNCZR001IP D: 2/10/01 T: 7/26/01