269462644 | PUO | 90673833 | | 2369715 | 7/16/2006 12:00:00 AM | RIGHT UPPER LOBE PNEUMONIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/10/2006 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 6/10/2006 ATTENDING: PILLING , WEI M.D. DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Community acquired pneumonia. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Cough and shortness of breath. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 60-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , hypertension , diabetes , prior stroke as well as a non-ST elevation MI with a right coronary artery stent placed in April of 2005 who presents with a one week history of cough and shortness of breath. 
On the day of admission the patient experienced approximately 25 minutes of chest pain that was 5/10 in severity while she was at dialysis. 
The patient describes this chest pain to be right-sided and pleuritic in nature. 
She denies fevers , chills , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain or diarrhea or lightheadedness. 
She also denies orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. 
Of note , at baseline , the patient does have slow speech with some right lower extremity weakness from her prior stroke in April of 2005. 
The EMS Service was called and noted that she had a large amount of secretions. 
On presentation to the emergency department , the patient received aspirin , Plavix , azithromycin , cefpodoxime , vancomycin , captopril and Trileptal. 
She had a chest x-ray consistent with a right upper lobe pneumonia. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension , coronary artery disease , end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis Monday , Wednesday , Friday , status post cardiac catheterization with three-vessel disease , diabetes , atrial fibrillation , stroke , seizure disorder , right subclavian vein thrombosis with a status post SVC stent. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION Zocor 40 mg p.o. once a day , aspirin 81 mg p.o. once a day , Toprol-XL 150 mg twice a day , Nephrocaps one tablet p.o. once a day , Plavix 75 mg p.o. once a day , Trileptal 300 mg p.o. once every morning , 450 mg p.o. once every evening , Nexium 20 mg p.o. once a day , Sensipar 60 mg p.o. once a day , Norvasc 10 mg p.o. once a day , Prozac 20 mg p.o. once a day , captopril 50 mg p.o. three times a day. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has a history of alcohol use in the past but none currently. 
She denies tobacco or IV drug use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Temperature 97 , heart rate 53 , blood pressure 143/52 , respiratory rate 20 and satting 100% on room air. 
General: The patient was in no apparent distress , alert and oriented x3 with slow speech and a mild right-sided facial droop. 
HEENT: Pupils were equal , round and reactive to light , extraocular muscles intact , moist mucous membranes , JVP at 8 cm. 
Cardiovascular: Significant for 3/6 harsh systolic ejection murmur at the right upper sternal border heard to the carotids and also at the apex. 
Chest: Decreased respiratory effort. 
No egophony , no crackles , no rhonchi. 
Abdomen soft , nontender , nondistended , normoactive bowel sounds. 
Back: The patient has a decubitus ulcer on the sacrum. 
Extremities warm and well perfused with 1+ pedal edema. 
Neurologic examination: Cranial nerves II-XII intact , she did have some right lower extremity weakness that has been chronic. 
Sensation testing was intact throughout. 
LABORATORY DATA: significant for potassium 3.3 , BUN 13 , creatinine od 2 , BNP 7900. 
One set of negative cardiac enzymes. 
White blood cell count 3.1 , hematocrit 36 , platelets 248 , INR 1.2 , EKG showed some new ST depressions in the inferior and lateral leads that were new from prior. 
Chest x-ray; PA and lateral showed a new ill-defined opacity in the right upper lobe likely representing pneumonia. 
Chest CT without contrast showed no evidence of cavitary lesion within the lungs , a small area of consolidation within the right upper lobe consistent with possible pneumonia. 
A nodule in the right upper lobe that was 8 mm in size and stable from 2005 , but should be followed up approximately every 6 months with follow up with CAT scan of the chest. 
There were coronary calcifications. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Infectious disease , the patient was admitted with a right upper lobe pneumonia somewhat concerning for aspiration pneumonia , pneumonia given that she was found to have a large amount of secretions upon admission. 
She was initially treated with vancomycin to cover for MRSA as well as ceftriaxone and azithromycin. 
She had nasal swabs that were negative for influenza A&amp;P. 
She also had a PPD placed on May , 2006 , that was negative. 
She had two sputum cultures that were sent for AFB smears that were negative for acid fast bacilli. 
Her vancomycin was discontinued after 24 hours. 
She has completed a 5-day course of azithromycin. 
She has to complete another 5 doses of cefpodoxime have outpatient that should be admitted administered three times a week after hemodialysis. 
The patient had a chest CT that showed no evidence for a cavitary lesion. 
She does however have a pulmonary nodule in the right upper lobe that should be followed with interval CAT scans as an outpatient. 
The patient also had a beta glucan and serum tests that are currently pending. 
The patient has had negative culture data. 
She was initially placed on tuberculosis precautions , however , given the absence of cavitary lesion on chest CT , negative PPD and negative sputum cultures , the likelihood of TB was thought to be extremely low and her precautions were discontinued. 
2. Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: The patient had a speech and swallow evaluation for concern of aspiration. 
She was placed on mechanical soft honey thick liquid diet that she should continue upon discharge. 
She will likely need a repeat speech and swallow evaluation while at rehabilitation and may possibly need a video swallow examination if she continues to show signs of aspiration. 
In addition , the head of her bed should be kept elevated. 
The patient was also noted to have hypercalcemia during this admission. 
The patient should have a serum protein electrophoresis as an outpatient for further evaluation. 
Currently , her calcium supplementation during dialysis has been discontinued. 
In addition , her PTH level is currently pending and should be followed up as an outpatient. 
3. Renal: The patient has end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis. 
She undergoes hemodialysis Monday , Wednesday and Friday and she should continue this upon discharge at the Lesum On- Community Hospital  at E , 367 907 7801. 
She was admitted to the renal service. 
She continues on Nephrocaps. 4. Cardiovascular: The patient had three sets of negative cardiac enzymes and ruled out for myocardial infarction. 
The patient is status post recent non-ST elevation MI was continued on aspirin , Plavix , statin , ACE inhibitor , Beta-blocker. 
She appeared euvolemic on examination. 
5. GI: The patient was placed on a bowel regimen. 
6. Prophylaxis: The patient received PPI and heparin for DVT prophylaxis. 
7. Wound care: The patient was seen by the wound care consult service for a stage 2 sacral decubitus ulcer. 
She should have DuoDERM dressing applied to this ulcer every three days. 
She also benefits from an air mattress and vitamin C supplementation as well. 
8. Endocrine: The patient's TSH was normal at 1.12. 
9. Hematology: The patient had evidence of anemia of chronic disease. 
Folate was normal , B12 was normal. 
10. 
Psych: The patient continued on Prozac for depression. 
11. 
Neuro: The patient continued on Trileptal for her seizure disorder. 
CODE STATUS: The patient is full-code and her health care proxy is her son. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS Tylenol 650 mg p.o. every six hours , as needed for pain , not to exceed 4 grams a day , aspirin 81 mg p.o. once a day , albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs every 4 hours , Norvasc 10 mg p.o. once a day , vitamin C 250 mg p.o. twice a day , captopril 50 mg p.o. three times a day , cefpodoxime 400 mg p.o. three times a week after hemodialysis for 5 more doses , Plavix 75 mg p.o. once a day , Colace 100 mg p.o. twice a day , Nexium 40 mg p.o. once a day , Prilosec 20 mg p.o. once a day , Toprol-XL 150 mg p.o. twice a day , Nephrocaps one tablet p.o. once a day , Trileptal 300 mg p.o. once every morning and 450 mg p.o. once every afternoon , senna two tablets p.o. twice a day , hold if loose stool , Zocor 40 mg p.o. at bedtime , Zinc sulfate 220 mg p.o. once daily for fourteen doses. 
TO DO LIST: 1. Continue wound care for sacral decubitus ulcer. 
2. Follow up with primary care provider to have serum protein electrophoresis as outpatient as well as monitoring of her right upper lobe pulmonary nodule seen on chest CT. 3. Please have repeat speech and swallow evaluation at rehabilitation to assess for aspiration. 
4. Please continue current plan for hemodialysis every Monday , Wednesday and Friday. 
eScription document: 9-4613950 RSSten Tel CC: Normand Maryland Bennes MD , DRPH Grove Pro Woodley Dictated By: JERRETT , RACHEAL Attending: PILLING , WEI Dictation ID 9058139 D: 4/10/06 T: 4/10/06