983279178 | PUO | 04309927 | | 9958894 | 10/9/2005 12:00:00 AM | RIGHT KNEE EFFUSION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/21/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 11/14/2005 ATTENDING: IN , DERICK M.D. PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: 1. Knee pain. 
2. Chronic venous stasis. 
3. Lithium toxicity. 
4. Obesity. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 50-year-old female with a history of hypertension , diabetes , obesity , as well as a schizophrenia and bipolar disorder , presents with right knee swelling , redness and pain for one week. 
The patient lives alone at home and has two brothers who periodically check in on her. 
She was visited by her brother yesterday and found that her right knee had been swollen red and tender for about a week. 
After he noted this , he brought her to the emergency department. 
The patient states that the leg has made it impossible for her to ambulate. 
She denies trauma to the area recently. 
She also denies fevers , chills , shortness of breath or chest pain. 
There is no nausea , vomiting , constipation or diarrhea. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Ovarian cystadenofibroma , status post TAH-BSO in 8/18 2. Obesity. 
3. Hypertension. 
4. Diabetes. 
5. Hyperlipidemia. 
6. Schizophrenia. 7. Bipolar disorder. 
8. Obstructive sleep apnea , on home BiPAP. 
9. History of laparoscopy for infertility. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Lisinopril 10 mg daily. 
2. Lipitor 40 mg daily. 
3. Klonopin. 
4. MetroGel p.o. at bedtime. 5. Lithium 900 mg at bedtime. 
6. Acebutolol 200 mg daily. 
7. Risperdal 0.5 mg at bedtime. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives at home alone. 
She smokes tobacco , but denies ethanol. 
She does drink several bottles of soda per day. 
Her brother , Telma Fausett , did involve in her care; his phone number is 932-691-5659 , he can also be reached at 490-726-2635. 
Her other brother , Telma Fausett , is also involved in her care and can be reached at 211-311-6940. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 97.5 , pulse 42 , blood pressure 107/58 , respirations 20 , and oxygen saturation 97%. 
In general , this is an obese female , she is thai-speaking mostly. 
She appears unkempt and in discomfort somewhat because of her right knee pain. 
She is no acute distress. 
Cardiovascular exam shows bradycardia , with normal S1 and S2 , and 2/6 systolic ejection murmur heard best at the left upper sternal border. 
Her chest exam showed some low soft rumbling sounds with inspiration and expiration , otherwise , clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Abdomen was distended and obese. 
There are positive bowel sounds , and no palpable liver and spleen. 
Extremity exam showed uncut nails on upper and lower extremities bilaterally. 
Her right leg was greater in size than her left , however , both show significant 2-3+ pitting edema. 
On the right ankle area , there appears to be chronic venous stasis changes with hyperpigmented patch on the lower extremity. 
There are less chronic venous stasis changes on the left lower extremity. 
There was some mild erythema around the right knee. 
This area of redness was poorly demarcated and mildly blanching. 
There was painful passive motion on her right knee. 
Neuro exam was grossly intact and nonfocal. 
She did have a coarse tremor in her upper and lower extremities when asked to use these extremities for motion. 
DIAGNOSTIC DATA: Electrolytes were significant for a potassium of 5.8 and a creatinine of 1.6 that was raised from previous creatinine in 2004 of 1.0. 
Her liver enzymes were unremarkable. 
Her hematocrit was 45.5. 
A UA done on admission was bland , however , urine cultures grew greater than a 1000 CFU/mL of coag-negative Staphylococcus. 
Her right knee film showed mild effusion , no fracture. 
This effusion was tapped and showed 20 white blood cells , 810 red blood cells. 
Of the white blood cells , 21% were PMNs and 75% were lymphocytes. 
There were no crystals seen. 
There were no organisms seen. 
ASSESSMENT: Ms. Fausett is a 50-year-old female with a history of bipolar disorder , schizophrenia , obstructive sleep apnea , hypertension , and diabetes , was admitted for one week of worsening right knee redness , swelling and pain causing immobility. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM/PROBLEM: 1. Leg swelling: The differential diagnosis that was considered for her leg swelling included deep venous thrombosis versus cellulitis versus septic joints versus gout versus chronic lymphedema with an acute worsening. 
Infectious causes were considered less likely given the fact that the patient's white count was not significantly elevated , ( it was 10.5 with 75% polys , and 80% lymphs ) , and in fact that she has not had any fever. 
The patient was treated empirically , however , as this diagnosis was unable to be ruled out initially with vancomycin and Unasyn and then with levofloxacin. 
The patient was treated with therapeutic doses of heparin because of the concern of pain and swelling asymmetrically of the lower extremities. 
This continued until lower extremity Doppler studies showed no deep venous thrombosis in the right femoral or left popliteal veins. 
Uric acid levels were checked and shown to be elevated at 8.6 and again at 8.0. 
These values suggest that gout may be involved in this problem , however , there are no crystals and the synovial fluid making this diagnosis also less likely. 
Over her hospital course , the swelling , tenderness and redness of the right knee decreased significantly. 
However , the patient's left knee began to cause her significant pain , requiring oxycodone , Tylenol and lidocaine patch. 
Because of concerning renal function with a creatinine of 1.6 from 1.0 , NSAIDs were held initially , however , her creatinine trended down to 1.2 on the day of discharge , and so she will be discharged with NSAIDs , which are expected to help her musculoskeletal pain. 
While in the hospital , she received Physical Therapy who evaluated the patient and suggested that the patient would benefit from continued direct physical therapy to address functional mobility retraining. 
Short-terms goals included ambulate 50 feet with minimal assistance with restrictive device , and to tolerate out of bed to chair for 30 minutes with reports of fatigue. 
2. Lithium toxicity: Because of the patient's coarse tremor , bradycardia , hypotension , and the fact that she was taking lithium , encouraged her lithium level to be checked which came back elevated at 2.7 , ( normal levels between 0.5 and 1.3 ). 
This level was concerning because lithium has a very narrow therapeutic window. 
Her lithium was held and she was treated with IV fluids , which allowed her creatinine to decrease. 
It was thought that she was also somewhat dehydrated on presentation to the emergency department. 
Her lithium toxicity could in part explain for her bradycardia and hypotension as well as her hypokalemia and renal failure. 
A psych consult was obtained to address the question of when and how to restart the lithium. 
The psych consultant suggested to check lithium levels daily until they fell below 0.5 and then should restart the lithium at 300 mg at bedtime. 
On the day of discharge , her lithium level was at 1.12. 
This level should be checked at the nursing facility and lithium should be restarted at 300 mg at bedtime when the level is 0.5 or below. 
3. Cardiovascular: From a pump standpoint , the patient was hypovolemic and hypotensive on presentation to the emergency department. 
She responded well to normal saline fluid boluses and given a total of 3 liters over her hospital course. 
From a rhythm standpoint , the patient's bradycardia was resolved of either over beta blockade or lithium toxicity. 
Her beta-blocker was held as well as her lithium and her heart rate improved to the 50 and 60s. 
We would recommend holding the beta-blocker until follow up at her primary care physician's office for her next appointment. 
From an ischemia standpoint , EKG was performed which was a poor study that showed perhaps some T-wave inversions in aVL. 
However , ACS is unlikely at this time. 
The patient had no chest pain. 
4. Renal: Acute renal failure on presentation with a creatinine of 1.6 and 1.0 is likely prerenal versus lithium toxicity versus a combination of these. 
A creatinine improved to 1.2 on the day of discharge. 
5. Endocrinology: The patient had a history of diabetes according to her medical records. 
Her glucose while admitted here was in between 90 and 132. 
These were random glucose draws. 
Hemoglobin A1c was checked which came back at 6.2. 
At this time , diabetes may or may not be an appropriate diagnosis for her and she should follow up with her primary care physician with a fasting blood glucose test. 
6. Infectious disease: On initial presentation , the patient presented with hypotension in the setting of bradycardia and beta blockade with decreased volume status. 
There was a concern initially that this may be cellulitis and she was covered broadly with Unasyn and vancomycin. 
However , as she improved , and the redness and swelling decreased , she was switched to levofloxacin and committed to complete a seven-day course. 
She will complete six more days after discharge from the hospital of levofloxacin. 
7. Deconditioning: As mentioned above , Physical Therapy was consulted and the patient will go to nursing facility for a temporary rehabilitation. 
Upon discharge to her home from rehab , home safety evaluation should take place to make sure that the patient is okay to go back home and can give the services that she needs. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1. Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
2. Klonopin 1 mg p.o. at bedtime. 
3. Oxycodone 5 mg to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain , please hold if respiration rate is less than 12. 4. Risperdal 0.5 mg p.o. at bedtime. 5. Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily for six days after the day of discharge from Pagham University Of on 3/18/05. 
6. Ibuprofen 600 mg q.6h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged in stable condition to a nursing facility. 
Please draw blood for lithium level checks daily until it is below 0.5 , at which time , she should be restarted on lithium 300 mg p.o. at bedtime. 
She will follow up with her primary care physician , Dr. Buck Diego Moose at Chlais University Hospital , phone number is 271-077-8750. 
A message was left in the voice mail of her physician's office to schedule her an appointment and to contact her brother , Telma Fausett , at phone number 932-691-5659 or 719-745-4406 , or Telma Fausett at 969-614-1360 to inform them at when the appointment will be. 
It was requested that she be seen within two to three weeks. 
eScription document: 6-3264224 EMSSten Tel CC: Buck Moose M.D. Ter Den Fre Valelake Rich Ri CC: Cornelia Zable MD Verlce Orstamhunt And Ine Lasla Hou Dictated By: DESJARDIN , RENDA Attending: IN , DERICK Dictation ID 8388485 D: 10/21/05 T: 10/21/05