050164302 | PUO | 25737458 | | 640674 | 6/5/1998 12:00:00 AM | ASTHMA | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 8/13/1998 Report Status: Unsigned Discharge Date: 9/23/1998 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 50 year old obese gentleman who has a history of asthma and hypertension. 
No known history of coronary artery disease. 
The patient presented with acute onset of wheezing on the morning of admission. 
He was in his usual state of health until he developed this shortness of breath while driving which he is believed is secondary to an asthma flare. 
He received Albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers in the emergency room , as well as IV Solu-Medrol for oxygen saturation in the 80s , with some improvement. 
He was also noted to have an elevated triponin level at 0.12. 
The CK was 241 with MB of 0. Subsequent CK was 393 with MB of 50.1. 
He was transferred to the cardiology service for rule out myocardial infarction and for further evaluation and treatment. 
At that time he denied any chest pain or radiation of pain. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Remarkable for tobacco use of one to two cigars a day. 
Ethanol use. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension. 
Asthma. 
Nephrotic proteinuria. 
Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. 
Elevated cholesterol. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Status post thoracotomy in 1986 for retrocardiac/atrial cystic mass. 
Status post vasectomy. 
ALLERGIES: Penicillin. 
MEDICATIONS: Metformin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin NPH 33 units subcu q.a.m. and 15 units subcu q.p.m. , Lisinopril 20 mg q.d. , Losartan 100 mg q.d. , Zocor 20 mg q.d. , Lasix 160 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Colchicine 0.6 mg b.i.d. p.r.n. , and Indomethicine 25 mg p.r.n. , as well as Beclomethicine multidose inhalers 4 puffs b.i.d. p.r.n. wheeze. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Obese gentleman in mild distress. 
Extraocular movements intact. 
Pupils equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation. 
He had bibasilar crackles , as well as wheezes , throughout. 
Heart: Regular rate and rhythm. 
No murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
Abdomen: Large , obese. 
Tympanitic. 
Good bowel sounds. 
Extremities: No edema. 
LABORATORY DATA: Electrolytes were within normal limits. 
Serum glucose 269. 
CBC: WBC 12 , hematocrit 49 , platelet count 261. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: He was admitted for rule out myocardial infarction and he , indeed , was found to rule in for a myocardial infarction with triponin of 7.77. 
He had an echocardiogram which revealed inferior septal hypokinesis , left ventricular ejection fraction of approximately 40%. 
He had normal PA systolic pressures. 
He underwent cardiac catheterization on 7/1/98 which revealed stenosis of the left anterior descending artery of 90% and left circumflex artery of 90% and right coronary artery total occlusion. 
It also showed ejection fraction of 25%. 
Based on these catheterization results and his ruling in for myocardial infarction , he was taken to the operating room on 4/8/98 for an elective coronary artery bypass graft. 
The left internal mammary artery was grafted to the left anterior descending artery. 
The saphenous vein graft and radial artery were used to graft the aorta to the obtuse marginal and to the posterior descending artery. 
At the time of the procedure there was drainage of a bronchogenic cyst which was identified by echocardiogram. 
The contents of the cyst were found to be sterile. 
During the procedure he had an intra-aortic balloon pump placed. 
Postoperatively he had some bleeding from his chest tubes. 
The chest was left open postoperatively and covered with Esmarch bandage. 
Several hours postoperatively he had some bleeding and required re-exploration of the chest. 
We removed a small amount of bleeding from the cavity. 
One pack was left in. 
He remained on several inatropes and pressors and remained on an intra-aortic balloon pump. 
He was transfused with multiple blood products , including platelets and fresh frozen plasma for continued leaking. 
He remained intubated and was gradually weaned off of pressors. 
He also remained on a Lasix drip for diuresis and he continued to receive multiple units of blood products. 
On 4/3/98 he underwent sternal closure in the operating room. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well. 
He was again taken to Intensive Care Unit. 
He remained intubated and on an intra-aortic balloon pump. 
On 10/21/98 the patient had been extubated and intra-aortic balloon pump had been removed. 
Gradually his cardiac drips were weaned. 
Postoperatively he had atrial fibrillation and he was begun on Coumadin. 
He had an atrial arrhythmia which was controlled medically. 
He continued to progress slowly and was begun on oral medications as his drips were weaned. 
The patient was noted to have a 3 cm upper sternal opening which was initially thought to be possibly infected and this was opened as concern for his diabetes mellitus and possible infection. 
Plastic surgery was consulted and there was no gross infection to be found. 
He had gram stain and culture obtained of the wound. 
The gram stain revealed sterile wound and culture had grown out nothing. 
The plastic surgery recommended two week course of IV Vancomycin to cover possible organisms; however , there was no clinical evidence of infection. 
The patient had a PICC line placed for long term antibiotics and he is being discharged on Vancomycin IV at a dose of 1 mg IV q18h with peak and trough to be checked at rehabilitation facility. 
He will also continue with wet to dry dressing changes on the sternal wound t.i.d. 
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol #3 1 to 2 tablets p.o. q3 - 4h p.r.n. pain , Albuterol nebulizers 2.5 mg nebulizers q4h , Beclovent 4 puffs inhaled b.i.d. , Digoxin 0.25 mg p.o. q.d. , Diltiazem 30 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lasix 80 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
His preoperative dosage of insulin , as well as Lisinopril. 
Dictated By: DENISHA MCRORIE , M.D. SS37 Attending: JANAY D. STUKOWSKI , M.D. JX47 HB339/5317 Batch: 4939 Index No. FSAETI666D D: 8/25/98 T: 8/25/98