388530584 | PUO | 02419606 | | 173979 | 6/6/1998 12:00:00 AM | R/O MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/2/1998 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 11/27/1998 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: WIDE COMPLEX TACHYCARDIA POST EXERCISE TOLERANCE TEST RECOVERY. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1 ) HYPERCOAGULABILITY STATE WITH NEGATIVE SERUM WORK-UP. 2 ) RULE OUT RENAL CELL CARCINOMA ON THE LEFT ( CT PENDING ). 3 ) HISTORY OF PPD POSITIVITY WITH CHEST X-RAY NEGATIVE. 
4 ) GOUT. 5 ) CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE STATUS POST UNILATERAL ORCHIECTOMY. 
6 ) HISTORY OF HEPATITIS A. HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 70 year old man with coronary risk factors of hypertension , borderline hypercholesterolemia , remote tobacco with a history of hypercoagulability ( negative work-up for protein C , S , activated protein C , factor V lydin , antithrombin III , anticardiolipin antibody , and homocystine level ) , and multiple deep venous thromboses/pulmonary emboli requiring chronic anticoagulation and placement of an IVC filter in 11/20 He reportedly had a history of chronic shortness of breath and negative stress test for ischemia in 6/10 through 3/11/98. 
A Holter monitor in 4/17 showed frequent premature ventricular contractions , 21 couplets , and no other arrhythmias. 
An echo in 10/28 showed an ejection fraction of 55% , left ventricular hypertrophy , mitral valve prolapse with 2-3+ mitral regurgitation , and trace aortic insufficiency. 
A repeat Holter in 3/15 showed numerous premature ventricular contractions , PM bradycardia , sinus tachycardia , a rate of 113 , six triplets , and 172 couplets. 
On a stress test in 4/4 , the patient lasted two minutes and stopped secondary to atypical chest pain with a peak heart rate of 79% of predicted and a peak blood pressure of 170. 
There were no signs of definite ischemic and no clinically significant rhythm disturbance. 
The patient reported a vague history of arrhythmia in the Wa Lo for which he was supposedly due to have a pacemaker placed. 
He denied ever being symptomatic with these arrhythmias. 
Over the last week , he had reported increasing fatigue and shortness of breath. 
The day of admission on his way to the clinic for an INR check , he reported chest tightness that was different from his previous pulmonary emboli , apparently 10/10 on presentation though he denied it after the fact associated with shortness of breath and fatigue with "heavy heart beats". 
He denied associated symptoms of nausea , vomiting , diaphoresis , light headedness , and palpitations. 
He denied congestive heart failure and syncopal symptoms over the last few weeks. 
In the Emergency Room , he had flat CK and a 0 troponin I and a stress test lasting three minutes and fifteen seconds. 
Patient stopped secondary to fatigue and not chest pain , however , three to five minutes after recovery , he developed a couple of episodes of nonmonomorphic wide complex tachycardia at a rate of about 150 lasting twenty to thirty beats during which time he was reportedly asymptomatic. 
The patient was admitted for evaluation of this possible ventricular tachycardia. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: History of multiple pulmonary emboli/deep venous thromboses with number one in 11/17 , status post TPA when echo showed right ventricular strain , number two in 6/28 , number three in 6/10 after one year of Coumadin , and number four in 2/11 status post IVC filter placement when patient bled into left renal cyst with goal INR of 3 to 3.8. 
Patient had a negative hypercoagulability work-up , question of renal cell carcinoma which must be evaluated in the next two months , history of PPD positivity of 2 cm and negative chest x-ray , mitral valve prolapse and MR on echo , hypertensive borderline hypercholesterolemia , gout , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , status post unilateral orchiectomy , restrictive lung disease , history of a duplex 5 cm adrenal mass , negative 17 hydroxyketosteroids and VMA , and history of hepatitis A virus. CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q.d. , Cardura 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. , Axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Coumadin 6 mg p.o. q.d. , and indomethacin q.4h. 
ALLERGIES: Patient had no known drug allergies ( hydrochlorothiazide was thought to cause gout exacerbations and ace inhibitor thought to cause cough , and beta blocker with urinary retention ). 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient immigrated from the Mil with his wife a few years ago , had a remote history of tobacco , occasional alcohol , and no drugs. 
He was a previous factory worker. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Negative. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient is a 70 year old with a history of hypertensive borderline hypercholesterolemia , and hypercoagulability with multiple pulmonary emboli in the past who presented asymptomatically with a wide complex tachycardia that could not rule out ventricular tachycardia in the recovery phase of a full Bruce exercise tolerance test. 
The patient was admitted for Holter monitoring times 48 hours. 
He was ruled out for a myocardial infarction. 
He was started on a cholesterol lowering agent , his Coumadin was held , and Heparin was started in the case of an invasive procedure. 
On 10/15/98 , the patient had an exercise tolerance test MIBI on an increased dose of beta blocker of 50 mg of Lopressor q.8h. 
which showed that the patient exercised three minutes and fifteen seconds stopping secondary to leg pain from his deep venous thrombosis with a peak heart rate of 106 , peak blood pressure 150/80 , frequent premature ventricular contractions in couplets , no ST or T wave changes , and no chest pain. 
The patient then had an adenosine MIBI with a maximum heart rate of 81 and a maximum blood pressure of 180/70. 
He did have chest pain after the infusion with T wave inversions in V5 through V6 and occasional premature ventricular contractions that were consistent with but not diagnostic of ischemia. 
The MIBI images showed mild nonspecific inferior wall changes with some reversibility suggestive with but not conclusive of ischemia. 
The patient was discharged the following day on his usual out-patient medicines with the addition of an ace inhibitor , Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d. , given his mitral regurgitation. 
He will continue his beta blocker at an increased dose , Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , in addition to his Cardura and amlodipine. 
He was started on Zocor at 10 mg p.o. q.d. 
DISPOSITION: He will need out-patient echos to follow his mitral regurgitation and will need to be observed the higher risk of developing atrial fibrillation. 
He will also need a repeat stress test in the next couple of months when his leg pain completely resolves. 
From a hypercoagulability standpoint , his Coumadin was started at his usual out-patient dose of 6 mg p.o. q.p.m. with enoxaparin used as a bridge to anticoagulation until his INR is at least 3. His goal INR is between 3 and 3.8. 
He will have visiting nurse teach him to use the enoxaparin and will come to Coumadin Clinic at KTDUOO every two to three days to have his INR level checked. 
A pelvic CT was scheduled on 8/14/98 at 2 p.m. to reevaluate his kidneys and rule out renal cell carcinoma. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , Lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d. , Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q.d. , Cardura 1 mg p.o. q.h.s. , nitroglycerin sublingual tablets 0.4 mg q.5 minutes p.r.n. chest pain , indomethacin 25 mg p.o. q.6h. 
, Axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Zocor 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. , enoxaparin 60 mg subcutaneously q.12h. 
until INR 3 , and Coumadin 6 mg p.o. q.p.m. 
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will follow-up with Dr. Ulysses Geldrich next week and was in stable condition upon discharge. 
Dictated By: MAGALY CONWRIGHT , M.D. MG7 Attending: DESIRAE R. MARCOTT , M.D. BB18 RM479/3254 Batch: 38485 Index No. LETWMC4UAC D: 10/7/98 T: 5/25/98 CC: 1. ULYSSES C. GELDRICH , M.D. HD87