847442317 | PUO | 82161933 | | 413158 | 2/20/2000 12:00:00 AM | ABDOMINAL PAIN | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/20/2000 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 1/21/2001 CHIEF COMPLAINT: A 29-year-old G 3 P 2 admitted on postoperative day #19 , status post a STAT cesarean section at 29 weeks for fetal bradycardia following laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
She was readmitted for wound infection. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient's past medical history is significant for cardiac transplant in 1989 for a dilated cardiomyopathy. 
The patient is on multiple immunosuppressants. 
The patient had several episodes of acute cholecystitis and underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy nineteen days prior to admission. 
Fetal bradycardia developed immediately following the cholecystectomy and a STAT cesarean section was performed. 
The patient was returned to the Cardiology Service for further management of fluid status and mild congestive heart failure. 
She was discharged on postoperative day #7. 
On 3/3 the patient was seen in the MFM practice and a wound hematoma on the left side was noted. 
It was and drained with normal , healthy tissue identified. 
She had b.i.d. dressing changes with a visiting nurse. 
On the day of admission the patient noted a temperature to 100.0 , slightly foul-smelling discharge from the wound. 
She denied abdominal pain. 
The patient also noted that the right foot pain present at the time of surgery had been worsening over the course of the day and was noted to be swollen and erythematous at the time of admission. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Viral cardiomyopathy , now status post transplant , hypertension , chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline creatinine of 1.4-1.8 , hyperlipidemia , obesity , history of group A Strep sepsis in 1998. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Cesarean section x 2 in 1998 and 2001 , laparoscopic cholecystectomy on 10/24 , D&amp;E for SAb in 11 of November , status post eye surgery in 1973. 
MEDICATIONS: Imuran 75 mg p.o. b.i.d.; cyclosporin 125 mg p.o. q.d.; prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.d.; pravastatin 10 mg p.o. q. h.s.; quinidine sulfate 25 mg p.o. t.i.d.; Kaopectate 30 mg p.o. q. i.d.; Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.; miconazole topical 2% p.r.n.; Tylenol #3 1-2 p.o. q. 4-6h p.r.n. pain. 
ALLERGIES: Sulfa , penicillin , IVP dye all cause pink rash , succinylcholine resulted in respiratory arrest. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 98.6 , blood pressure 120/60 , respirations 18 , pulse 74. 
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm. 
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
ABDOMEN: Obese , nontender , nondistended , incision was open at two sites. 
There was gray , malodorous fluid draining from the wound. 
The wound tracked superiorly on the left. 
The fascia was intact. 
There was no evidence of necrotic tissue. 
EXTREMITIES: Distal extremities had trace edema , right greater than left with erythema and tenderness on the dorsal surface of the right ankle. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1 ) Wound infection: An Infectious Disease consult was obtained at the time of admission and the patient was sent for immediate intraoperative treatment and wound debridement. 
Surgery was consulted intraoperatively to confirm healthy tissue and no evidence of necrosis. 
The patient was started on levofloxacin and clindamycin IV and t.i.d. dressing changes. 
Blood cultures obtained prior to antibiotic therapy were negative for bacteremia. 
Cultures of the wound were consistent with Strep and diphtheroids with obvious polymicrobial involvement. 
On hospital day #3 blood cultures which had been drawn from the patient's indwelling line returned with 2/4 bottles positive for gram-positive cocci in clusters. 
The central line was discontinued. 
The patient began treatment on vancomycin 1 gram IV q. 12h , levofloxacin was continued and the Flagyl was started 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
The patient remained afebrile throughout this time. 
A CT of the abdomen and pelvis was obtained per Infectious Disease recommendation and it confirmed that there was no intraabdominal abscess. 
The patient was continued on IV vancomycin with p.o. Flagyl and levofloxacin until 4/14/01 , hospital day #8. 
At that point the patient was discharged to home with visiting nurse and continued IV and p.o. antibiotics x 14 days. 
Cultures obtained following discontinuation of her central line returned as negative. 
On hospital day #6 the patient had a significant yeast infection surrounding the lower aspect of the incision as well as in the intertriginous areas. 
This was treated with topical nystatin. 
2 ) Cardiovascular: The patient's cardiac standpoint remained stable throughout the admission with no evidence of congestive heart failure. 
Routine echo was performed on 5/25/01 as scheduled per her transplant protocol. 
There were no other cardiovascular issues during the patient's admission. 
3 ) Renal: The patient had a baseline history of renal insufficiency as described above with a creatinine of 2.1 on admission. 
Creatinine increased during her admission to a maximum of 3.1. 
She was also noted to have decreasing urine output at that time. 
Adjustments were made in vancomycin and cyclosporin levels and the patient's creatinine slowly returned to baseline with significant improvement of urine output. 
4 ) GI: The patient had no difficulties with bowel function until hospital day #5 when patient was noting increasingly loose stools. 
C. diff. 
was obtained x 2 and were negative. 
She was treated with Imodium p.r.n. 5 ) Rheumatology: The patient had initially right ankle pain and swelling noted at the time of admission. 
A Rheumatology consult was obtained and the joint was tapped and there was no evidence of infection at that time. 
The patient was continued to be followed by Rheumatology and , based on Rheumatology and Transplant Team recommendations , was treated with colchicine for the diagnosis of gout on immunosuppressant medications. 
The possibility of plantar fasciitis was raised during admission and treatment was pain medication , continued colchicine and physical therapy. 
The patient was able to ambulate at the time of discharge. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Vancomycin 750 mg IV q. 12h; levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d.; Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x 14 days; Percocet 1-2 p.o. q. 3-4h p.r.n. pain. 
The patient had a visiting nurse established for continued b.i.d. dressing changes at home and to obtain vancomycin and cyclosporin levels as needed. 
FOLLOWUP: She will be followed by her cardiac transplant team to follow her antibiotic and immunosuppressant levels. 
She was scheduled for routine follow up with the cardiac transplant team with no changes in appointment time , follow up with OB/GYN in two weeks' time. 
Dictated By: KUM BINGLEY , M.D. SK18 Attending: ANASTACIA M. DEBROCK , M.D. SK0 TP525/1669 Batch: 17448 Index No. USULFV26RB D: 10/13/01 T: 9/30/01