585843377 | PUO | 62142260 | | 897367 | 9/14/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 6/29/1995 Report Status: Unsigned Discharge Date: 6/11/1995 PRELIMINARY DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 62-year-old white male status post anterior wall myocardial infarction , status post TPA who presented with post-infarct angina and three-vessel disease by catheterization. 
The patient's cardiac risk factors include diabetes , hypertension , and positive family history. 
The patient denies cigarettes. 
The patient is a very noncooperative historian. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history is significant for diabetes of 20 years without neurological or retinopathy treated with oral hypoglycemics. 
The patient has long-standing hypotension of 30 to 40 years. 
The patient , in 1985 , had a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty at the Pagham University Of and has had rule outs since for myocardial infarction with the last one approximately in 1990 at Pagham University Of . 
The patient , however , has been able to work and climb stairs and walk about a mile without difficulty. 
Several days to admission , the patient reports pain and ache over the lower back and flanks as well as substernal chest pain with radiation to the upper left arm. 
The patient is unable to describe any further symptoms. 
The patient denied nausea or vomiting but says he was diaphoretic. 
The patient took four to five Nitroglycerins without relief. 
The patient subsequently was admitted to Put Wathern Hospital and had at least 3 hours of pain at Put Wathern Hospital . 
The patient was ruled in for anterior wall myocardial infarction with ST elevations 4 to 5 mm in V1. Blood pressure was 152/95. 
The patient received front-loaded TPA , Heparin , Aspirin , Morphine sulfate and Nifedipine. 
At 1:00 a.m. , the patient had recurrent chest pain with elevations in V1 through 6 , Lead , 1 , AVL and the patient was subsequently transferred to the Pagham University Of . 
At the Pagham University Of , the patient was cathed and had 100% stenotic mid left anterior descending , 90% ulcerated obtuse marginal first branch , 60 to 70% stenotic right coronary artery and anterior apical aneurysm was noted. 
The patient was placed on an intra-aortic balloon pump in preparation for coronary artery bypass surgery. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history is inclusive of status post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in '85 at Pagham University Of , coronary artery disease , diabetes , hypertension and ruptured appendectomy 25 years prior to admission. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: The patient was admitted on the following medications: Diltiazem 60 t.i.d. , Glyburide , Lisinopril 20 PO q.day. 
ALLERGIES: The patient has no known drug allergies. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination , the patient's temperature is 98.1 , heart rate 66 , sinus 137/57 , saturating at 97% and 100% face mask who is in no acute distress lying in bed with an intra-aortic balloon pump. 
HEENT: Pupils are equal and reactive to light and accommodation. 
Intraocular muscles intact. 
Oropharynx clear. 
Neck: Jugular venous pressure was about 8 cm. 
There was no hepatojugular reflux. 
No thyromegaly. 
No lymphadenopathy. 
Carotids were 2+ without bruits. 
Heart: A balloon pump was in place. 
Regular rate and rhythm. 
Normal S1 , S2. No murmurs appreciated. 
Abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended with positive bowel sounds. 
Extremities: No clubbing , cyanosis or edema. 
The patient had 2+ dorsalis and posterior tibial pulses bilaterally and on the right femoral artery had a right intra-aortic balloon pump in place. 
There were no varices noted. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient went to the Operating Room on 9/29 , had a coronary artery bypass graft x three with a saphenous vein graft to the LAD , first branch of the obtuse marginal and the posterior descending artery. 
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transferred to the Cardiac Surgery Unit in stable condition. 
On postoperative day #1 , the patient self-extubated himself and resultantly had an adequate arterial blood gas , thus not requiring emergent intubation. 
The patient's intra-aortic balloon pump was subsequently removed without further incident , and the patient was subsequently transferred to the floor in stable condition. 
On postoperative day #3 , the patient had atrial fibrillation which was treated and controlled pharmacologically , and also the patient was treated with prophylactic anticoagulation with Coumadin. 
The remainder of the hospital stay , the patient remained afebrile , tolerated his diet , was ambulatory , had his chest tube and cordis and Foley catheters removed. 
On postoperative day #6 , the patient converted to sinus rhythm , and the patient had planned discharge for 24 hours after that which would have been on 10/2 However , the patient requested to be discharged to home. 
The condition was discussed with the patient and the patient's wife which required continued observation until the morning for removal of epicardial wires. 
However , the patient refused to stay. 
He experienced a desire to go home stating that he does not like the food here and is unable to sleep and does not want further medical intervention. 
The risks of the discharge including rhythm , abnormalities and complications related to pacing wires were reviewed with the patient and his wife. 
DISPOSITION: Despite understanding potential risks for discharge , the patient expressed desire for leaving against medical advice. 
The above condition was discussed with Dr. Barrette , the attending surgeon. 
The patient was subsequently found to have left the hospital by taxi with IV Heplocks , wires and Telemetry intact. 
The patient was called at home , and condition of his discharge and recommendations were given which were to return to the hospital to have IV's , wires and Telemetry removed. 
The patient refused , however. 
He refused to have the Visiting Nurse Association to come in to remove his IV's. 
The patient was encouraged to return for clipping of the epicardial pacing wires; however , he refused. 
The patient's wife was sent with prescriptions and risk management was also informed. 
The patient was requested to return today , the 10 of October , to have pacing wires and Telemetry removed as well as IV's. 
The patient returned for an hour , had pacing wires removed and Telemetry box also removed. 
The patient just left on his own accord. 
The patient requested to follow-up with Dr. Barrette in 6 weeks and his cardiologist in 2 weeks. 
Dictated By: SHERELL HOOE , M.D. PT80 Attending: GENNY S. BARRETTE , M.D. ZD6 JK023/6132 Batch: 9176 Index No. E6MRY607GS D: 4/3/95 T: 4/3/95