918345620 | PUO | 81370631 | | 4738000 | 3/1/2004 12:00:00 AM | PNEUMONIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/1/2004 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 8/29/2005 ATTENDING: GERARD MUHLSTEIN MD SERVICE: General Medical Service Vi Ster Nas ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Pneumonia. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Pneumonia associated with PICC line bacteremia. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Diaphoresis and shortness of breath. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Rude is a 68-year-old gentleman with known coronary artery disease status post 2-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting in 5/4 , hypertension , atrial fibrillation status post cardioversion on Coumadin , hypercholesterolemia , aortic stenosis , status post aortic valve replacement with bioprosthetic valve , diabetes mellitus , cervical stenosis , as well as a recent admission to the Pagham University Of for bilateral brachial plexopathy of unknown etiology , who is receiving three weeks of intravenous cefotaxime as empiric Lyme treatment as a possible cause for his plexopathy , who presents with shortness of breath. 
While at the Wanor Troitreal Community Hospital , the patient developed shortness of breath one-and-a-half day prior to admission. 
This was associated with significant diaphoresis and fevers intermittently for four days prior to admission. 
Of note , the patient denied any dysuria , cough , sinus pain , diarrhea , ear pain , pleuritic chest pain , calf pain , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , or orthopnea. 
The patient was taken to the emergency department where a chest x-ray demonstrated a new right upper lobe pneumonia. 
The patient was treated with levofloxacin in the emergency department and admitted to the inpatient medical service. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Coronary artery disease status post 2-vessel coronary artery bypass grafting in 4/5 2. Hypertension. 
3. Atrial fibrillation status post cardioversion on Coumadin. 
4. Hypercholesterolemia. 5. Aortic stenosis , status post aortic valve replacement ( bioprosthesis ). 6. Diabetes mellitus. 
7. Bilateral brachial plexopathy of unknown etiology , but attributed to Lyme disease. 
The patient was being treated four with three weeks of IV cefotaxime. 
This brachial plexopathy had improved to the point where the patient was able to lift his arms and do his own ADLs. 
When he first presented with this condition , the patient had a near complete paralysis of his motor function in his upper extremities without loss of his sensory function , per report. 
8. Cervical stenosis and foraminal stenosis , as well as congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 45%. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS: Metformin 1000 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 500 mg p.o. q.p.m. , simvastatin 5 mg p.o. q. Monday , Wednesday , and Friday , Neurontin 300 mg b.i.d. , which had been tapered down to 300 mg q.d. , and then plan for discontinuation , Nexium 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. b.i.d. , amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. , Atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , Senna , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.d. , methadone 5 mg p.o. p.r.n. pain , and regular insulin sliding scale , and cefotaxime 2 g IV injections t.i.d. ( final dose on the day of admission ). 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Resident at the Longro Ana Dara for the past three weeks. 
He is married. 
Tobacco history , one-and-a-half packs per day , smoking x40 years but has quit. 
No alcohol use. 
Over the past seven years. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Upon admission , afebrile , pulse 80s , blood pressure 126/72 , and oxygen saturation 96% on 2 liters. 
General appearance: Not acutely in distress , talking in full sentences , ruddy appearing in the face , but stable per the patient. 
Head and neck exam revealed pupils that were equally round and reactive to light. 
Extraocular movements were intact. 
No sinus tenderness. 
JVP was around 9 cm , no lymphadenopathy. 
Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm. 
Normal S1 and S2 , 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at the upper sternal border. 
Chest exam: Bibasilar crackles and right-sided bronchial breath sounds and question focal wheeze. 
Abdomen: Soft , nontender , and nondistended. 
Bowel sounds are present. 
Extremities: No edema. 
Warm and well perfused. 
LABORATORY DATA: Admission laboratory values included a Chem-7 within normal limits with a creatinine of 0.8 and glucose of 181. 
White blood cell count of 9.8 , hematocrit of 33.6 , and platelets of 222 with a differential of 88% neutrophils. 
Liver function tests are significant AST of 45 , ALT of 65 , alkaline phosphatase 153 , and total bilirubin 0.5 , yet these liver function tests quickly corrected the next morning of an AST of 21 , ALT of 47 , alkaline phosphatase 123 , total bilirubin 0.5 , CK of 31 , CK-MB of 1.7 , troponin of less than assay , and amylase of 23. 
Chest x-ray showing a right upper lobe wedge-shaped infiltrate , mild cardiomegaly , and mild pulmonary edema. 
Electrocardiogram was consistent with an old EKG from 2004 , normal sinus rhythm at 82 , now with slightly increased widening of the QRS complex in a left bundle-branch block pattern , hyperacute T waves in V4 and V3. IMPRESSION: A 68-year-old gentleman with multiple medical problems and bilateral brachial plexopathy of unclear etiology , now improving , who presents with new right upper lobe infiltrate in the presence of having an indwelling PICC line in place for IV antibiotics over the past three weeks as well as a bioprosthetic valve. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Infectious disease: The patient was admitted for likely hospital-acquired pneumonia given his long hospitalization and rehabilitation stays recently. 
The patient was pancultured. 
The PICC line was discontinued and the tip was cultured. 
The patient was covered broadly initially with vancomycin , as well as ceftazidime. 
On further review of the culture data during the hospital course , the patient began to grow coagulase-negative Staphylococcus that was resistant to methicillin from both the PICC line culture , as well his blood cultures from 11/10/05. 
His chest CT was significant for an extensive area of ground glass opacity in the right upper lobe with smaller areas in other lobes. 
Bilateral mediastinal adenopathy was noted. 
Infection was thought to be the most likely diagnosis in view of the rapidity of the chest film changes. 
Other possibilities included bronchoalveolar cell carcinoma or lymphoma per the radiologic read , but was not consistent with the clinical presentation. 
Per infectious disease consultation , the pneumonia could be attributed to the MRSE PICC line bacteremia with secondary seating. 
A subsequent transthoracic echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 55%-60% , but with abnormal paradoxical motion consistent with his postoperative status after aortic valve replacement. 
The entire anterior wall was hypokinetic. 
The right ventricular systolic function appeared to be normal. 
The left atrial size was mildly dilated at 4.6 cm. 
The aortic valve appeared to be normal functioning with trace aortic regurgitation. 
Other valvular function appeared to be within normal limits with exception of moderate-to-severe tricuspid regurgitation and peak systolic pulmonary artery pressures of 31 mmHg plus right atrial pressure. 
No pericardial effusion was seen and no evidence of endocarditis was observed. 
On follow up chest x-rays throughout the hospital course , the patient's infiltrate resolved with a chest x-ray on 5/11/05 showing clear lungs and only prior cardiac surgery evident without worsening or continued presence of the right upper lobe infiltrate. 
A new PICC line was placed per infectious disease service recommendations for continued intravenous treatment with vancomycin for 7 to 10 days starting 48 hours after the last blood culture was negative. 
Therefore , the last dose of his IV antibiotics should be given on 2/18/05. 
To cover other gram-negative sources for his pneumonia , the Infectious Disease Service also suggested continuing and ceftazidime treatment as well. 
Therefore , the patient will be discharged on both intravenous vancomycin as well as intravenous ceftazidime treatment. 
Because of the patient's inability to pay for the visiting nurses to administer IV antibiotics at home , the patient will be discharged to a rehabilitation center. 
2. Cardiovascular: Ischemia: Given the patient's history of diabetes and shortness of breath , the patient was ruled out for myocardial infarction with three negative cardiac enzymes. 
The patient was continued on his anti-ischemic regimen including aspirin , statin , as well as beta blockade. 
In the future , the patient should be transitioned back to once a day dosing of beta blockade as an outpatient. 
Pump: The patient initially presented in mild volume overload. 
The patient was maintained on his home dosing of Lasix with good volume response. 
By the end of his hospitalization , the patient was not requiring any oxygen supplementally and was discharged with euvolemia. 
Rhythm: The patient was admitted initially in normal sinus rhythm status post cardioversion for atrial fibrillation. 
He remained on Coumadin. 
He was placed on telemetry given some increased widened intervals of his QRS complexes. 
Early in the course of his hospitalization , the patient converted back to atrial fibrillation. 
His rate was controlled with beta blockade. 
The Na Memorial Hospital was asked to comment. 
The patient was maintained on both beta blockade as well as digoxin. 
He also continued on anticoagulation with Coumadin. 
Interestingly , the Cardiovascular Service suggested that possibly some ground-glass opacities on the patient's chest CT could be attributed to amiodarone lung toxicity. 
Because of this finding , it was recommended that the patient stop the amiodarone , which was indeed discontinued through this hospitalization. 
He should follow up with his cardiovascular group as an outpatient to determine further course of treatment for his atrial fibrillation. 
Anticoagulation: The patient will continue to be treated with Coumadin for goal INR between 2 to 3. By the end of this hospitalization , the patient's INR was 1.7 on a dose of Coumadin 7 mg p.o. q.h.s. 
That dose was increased to 7.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. 
The patient should have his INR checked within two days after discharge and have his Coumadin dose changed appropriately. 
3. Neurologic: The patient was admitted on a previous hospitalization with a history of bilateral brachioplexopathy. 
It had been attributed to possible line infection given a history of a tick bite. 
He was treated empirically with three weeks of IV cefotaxime with moderate improvement of motor function while at rehabilitation. 
Interestingly , upon further review of Lyme disease workup , the patient apparently had a negative serology for Treponema pallidum IgG. 
Confirmatory tests , which included a Lyme disease titer was still marked as pending in our computer system at the Pagham University Of . 
Despite multiple attempts to try to contact the laboratory , which runs this particular tests , we were unable to confirm or deny the presence of past Lyme infection. 
Therefore , at this time , we can only state that his bilateral brachioplexopathy was secondary to an unknown and unclear etiology. 
Fortunately , with physical therapy and with time and possibly with infusion of the IV cefotaxime , the patient's motor function has improved. 
At the time of this discharge , the patient's overall upper extremity motor strength was 4+/5 symmetrically. 
The patient should follow up very closely with his primary care physician as well as his neurologist in one month. 
At that time , his neurologist should confirm or negate the possibility that the patient's neurologic symptoms may have been caused by Lyme disease. 
The patient should continue physical therapy at rehabilitation and as an outpatient. 
In addition , the patient should continue his Neurontin taper. 
He currently is on 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. and should be tapered to nothing by the end of his hospitalization and rehabilitation. 
He will continue on methadone for his chronic pain. 
In addition , he suffers from significant anxiety. 
He will be discharged on p.r.n. 
Ativan at low-dose , as higher doses tend to make him sleepier and oversedated. 
4. Endocrine: The patient was admitted with diabetes mellitus. 
He was initially admitted with taking metformin 1000 mg p.o. q.a.m. and 500 mg p.o. q.h.s. 
Because of his hospitalization and multiple studies , this was discontinued transiently and he was placed on a regular insulin sliding scale. 
At the end of this hospitalization , he will be placed back on those home doses of metformin. 
In addition , he will continue his ACE inhibitor for his diabetes , as well as for his significant cardiac disease. 5. Pulmonary: Much of his pulmonary process can be attributed to his pneumonia as treated in the statements above. 
In addition , he will continue on p.r.n. 
Atrovent and albuterol nebulizer treatment for possible wheezing during his hospitalization. 
In addition , it is hoped that the Ativan p.r.n. dosing also contribute to less subjective shortness of breath secondary to alleviation of his anxiety. 
6. Gastrointestinal: The patient , periodically , throughout his hospitalization complained of mild epigastric pain. 
A KUB showed no perforation and no obvious obstruction , but with many loops of bowel with stool. 
He was placed on a bowel regimen including Colace , senna , and Dulcolax p.r.n. 
By the end of this hospitalization , he appeared to be less symptomatic. 
In addition , he will continue his trial of simethicone p.r.n. for abdominal gas and bloating. 
He will continue on his proton pump inhibitor , Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. 
CODE STATUS: He remains full code throughout his hospitalization. 
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged to rehabilitation where he will continue IV antibiotic support for until 2/18/05. 
He should also continue physical therapy for his upper extremity motor dysfunction. 
He should follow up with his primary care physician as well as his neurologist as stated in his discharge summary. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Include Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. headache , aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , albuterol nebulizer treatment 2.5 mg nebulizer treatment q.4h. 
p.r.n. shortness of breath or wheeze , Dulcolax 5 mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation , ceftazidime 1000 mg IV q.8h. 
, to continue until 1/28/05 , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Robitussin q.4h. 
p.r.n. cough , Regular Insulin sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s. , lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q.d. , Ativan 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg p.o. q.8h. 
p.r.n. insomnia or anxiety , hold if respiration rate is less than 8 or somnolent , methadone 5 mg p.o. q.8h. 
p.r.n. pain; hold if oversedated or respiration rate less than 8 , Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d.; hold if heart rate is less than 55 or systolic blood pressure less than 100 , senna two tabs p.o. b.i.d.; hold for loose stools , simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. gas bloating or abdominal discomfort , trazodone 25 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , vancomycin 1000 mg IV q.12h.; last doses on 1/28/05 , Coumadin 7.5 mg p.o. q.p.m.; please draw INR within the next one to two days and dose the Coumadin appropriately for INR goal 2 to 3 , simvastatin 5 mg p.o. q.o.d. , Neurontin 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.; please continue to wean until completely off , Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Atrovent nebulizer treatment 0.5 mg nebulizer treatment q.6h. 
hour p.r.n. shortness of breath or wheeze , and metformin 1000 mg q.a.m. and 500 mg q.p.m. 
eScription document: 8-1384317 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: GELLINGER , WAYLON Attending: MUHLSTEIN , GERARD Dictation ID 7059631 D: 5/2/05 T: 5/2/05