313615200 | PUO | 85677707 | | 7012460 | 10/10/2003 12:00:00 AM | RT. ANKLE OSTEOARTHRITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/25/2003 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 11/1/2003 Date of Discharge: 11/1/2003 ATTENDING: DOUGLASS PETTINGER MD ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Right ankle fusion. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Status post right ankle fusion and pneumonia. 
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: Cleared history of heart transplant , history of rheumatic fever , diabetes mellitus type 1 , gastroesophageal reflux disease , chronic renal insufficiency , and osteoporosis. 
HISTORY: The patient is a 65-year-old woman with history of rheumatic heart disease and endocarditis ultimately requiring heart transplant in August of 1993 , diabetes mellitus type #1 , and chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine of 1.8. 
He was admitted on February , 2003 , for elective right ankle fusion. 
About 1 year prior to admission , she fell down stairs and had a right pilon fracture initially treated with cast immobilization. 
The patient noted persistent right lower leg and ankle deformity and daily aching pain and decided with her orthopedic surgeon to have an elective right ankle fusion. 
After surgery , her vitals were 100.3 , 111 , respiratory rate of 18 , oxygen saturation of 98% upon 70% face mask. 
Exam was notable for decreased breath sounds with wheezing with a positive S4. JVP was difficult to assess. 
Extremities were warm with pitting edema. 
Labs were notable for cyclosporin levels 133. 
EKG showed no significant change consistent with June , 2003. 
She was started on IV Lasix diuresis for proper fluid overload , as she had received 4 L intraoperatively. 
She developed low-grade fever and then up to 102 , and had left calf pain on palpation. 
A spiral CT was sent that was negative for PE , DVT , or CHF , but positive for atelectasis. 
The BUN to creatinine ratio trended upwards up to 31/2.3 from 29/1.7 on admission and then she was transferred to cardiology 3 for management of hypoxia , fever , acute and chronic renal failure , and developing hypertension to the 90s , systolic from a baseline of 105. 
She was transferred to cardiology on May , 2003. 
Her vitals on transfer were T max 100.4 to current 99.2 , pulse 99 to 108 , currently 99 , blood pressure was ranging to 90 to 102 over doppler to 60. Respiratory rate of 18 , 97% on high flow of 100% oxygen. 
On physical exam , she had bibasilar inspiratory crackles , left greater than right and tachycardia around 100. 
Extremities were warm with trace edema in the left lower extremity. 
Her labs at that time were notable for white count of only 6.5. 
Creatinine of 4.1 from 2.3 , and BUN of 41. 
She had a portable chest x-ray that showed cardiomegaly and bilateral atelectasis with focal opacity at the left lung base. 
EKG showed normal sinus rhythm with 97 beats per minute. 
No ST changes , Q wave inversions in V1 and V3 , with RSR prime pattern. 
V1 that showed RS duration of 80 milliseconds , not significantly changed from February , 2003. 
Echocardiogram on January , 2003 , had shown an ejection fraction of 50% to 55% with mild left ventricular enlargement and preserved systolic function , mild posterior and lateral hypokinesis , normal right ventricular size and function , mitral valves mildly thickened with mild MR. Stress echocardiogram on February 2003 , showed no inducible ischemia. 
There was a dobutamine protocol. 
Right heart cath in February of 2003 , showed a right atrial pressure of 21 , PCWP is 28. 
This time , she was started on Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d , The labs were negative for rejection. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As noted above , rheumatic heart disease status post heart transplant in 1993 , diabetes mellitus type 1 , GERD , chronic renal insufficiency , baseline creatinine of 1.8. 
In 1985 , had septic stroke with brain abscess postoperative status post MVR. 
History of MRSA , osteoporosis. 
Status post cholecystectomy. 
OUTPATIENT MEDICATIONS: Mag oxide , Tums p.r.n. , Niferex , Lexapro , multivitamin , Colace , Nexium , Lasix , Cyclosporin , prednisone , Imuran , Cozaar , Cardizem , aspirin , Nephrox , Pravachol , Fosamax , NPH 60 units q.a.m. 10 units q.p.m. 
ALLERGIES: Penicillin causes rash , codeine causes severe nausea and vomiting. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Quit smoking in 1978 , rare alcohol , no IV drug use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , vitals were notable for oxygen saturation in the 84% range on room air and tachycardia. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Musculoskeletal: The operation was without complications with minimal bleeding. 
She had a right leg cast placed after the procedure. 
She has been followed by the orthopedic surgery team initially on their service and then as a consulting team , once she was transferred to medicine. 
She was able to move her toes with the splint in place and there were no orthopedic complications from the procedure. 
She will follow up with Dr. Goodnow on March , 2003. 
She also worked with physical therapy to peripheral functional status and will need physical therapy as an outpatient 3 to 5 times per week. 
Her motion is limited by decreased strength in the upper extremities , which prevents her from performing NWB gait. 
Cardiovascular: Initially it was difficult to assess whether she was volume overloaded or euvolemic given the hypotension , but elevated right heart filling pressure before the admission and a chest x-ray that also revealed fluid in the fissure on the right. 
She had poor urine output as well so she was given Lasix 120 mg IV b.i.d. , to which she did not respond and the Lasix drip was started. 
She was transferred to the CCU for possible sepsis because her blood pressure continued to drop to the 60 and 70 systolic and required Dopamine IV. 
Once she was transferred to the CCU , a Swan-Ganz catheter was placed , which revealed SVR of 689 , and cardiac output of 5.8 consistent with sepsis. 
The right heart filling pressures were high also. 
She was continued on IV Lasix with good urine output response in the MICU and then was subsequently transferred back to the cardiac team when her hemodynamic status was improved. 
For ischemia , she was given aspirin and her home Pravachol for her ischemic risk factors including diabetes and high cholesterol. 
When she returned to the floor , her diuresis remained good off the Lasix , possibly related to post ATN diuresis and her ins and outs remained negative. 
She was given her home prednisone 5 mg q.d. as well as her home cyclosporin. 
She was also continued on Imuran. 
Infectious Disease. 
Given the chest x-ray findings , she was treated for pneumonia initially with broad covers with vancomycin , azithromycin , and levofloxacin. 
All the blood and urine cultures were negative. 
The workup for her infection was negative and was presumed that she had community-acquired pneumonia , and it responded well to levofloxacin 10-day course. 
The vancomycin was discontinued in the MICU and the Ceptaz was continued when she was transferred back the floor. 
On physical exam on the day of discharge was improved with only faint inspiratory crackles at the right base. 
She had two MRSA nares cultures that were negative and a third one was pending on the day of discharge. 
Stool cultures were sent that were negative as well as sputum Gram stain and culture that was negative. 
Renal: In the postoperative course , her creatinine rose dramatically to the 5 range , also the possible etiology was multifactorial including dye load with the CT , spiral , as well as history of chronic renal insufficiency likely from diabetes and chronic cyclosporin use. 
She was seen by renal consult and during the course of the MICU stay , her renal function improved dramatically back to the baseline and in the interim , she was given Sevelamer for high phosphorus , but it was discontinued when the phosphorus level came back normal. 
Gastrointestinal: She was continued on Nexium , Lactulose , and did not report any GI discomfort. 
Hematology: She was given subcu heparin for prophylaxis and Niferex. 
Endocrine: During the period of hypotension , she was given test dose steroids with hydrocortisone , and she responded well to this and when she returned to the cardiology floor , her hydrocortisone was tapered and she was then placed back on her home prednisone. 
She was continued on her home NPH 60 units in the morning and 10 units at night. 
She did develop some hypoglycemic episodes that were asymptomatic , the lowest glucose was 37 , so the evening dose of NPH was reduced to 4 units. 
She was also covered with insulin sliding scale while on steroids. 
Respiratory: She was breathing comfortably on room on the day of discharge. 
Neurology: She did have some waxing and waning of her mental status during the setting of hypotension and fever , although she had a baseline slowed response to questioning. 
She was markedly slower to respond to questioning but normally oriented to place and person. 
By the time she was discharged she was back to her baseline mental status as confirmed by her husband at bedside. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , Imuran 15 mg p.o. q.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Heparin 5000 units subcu b.i.d. , NPH human insulin 60 units subcu q.a.m. 
NPH human insulin 40 units subcu q.p.m. 
regular insulin sliding scale subcu q.a.c. and h.s. , Lactulose 30 mg p.o. q.d. , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Nystatin cream topical b.i.d. , prednisone 5 mg p.o. q.a.m. , Pravachol 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , cyclosporin 15 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Diltiazem Extended Release 300 mg p.o. q.d. , Miconazole Nitrate 2% topical b.i.d. , Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Magnesium oxide 400 mg p.o. q.d. , Combivent 2 puffs inhaled q.i.d. , p.r.n. shortness of breath , Lexapro 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Fosamax 70 mg p.o. q. week. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: The patient will follow up with orthopedics Dr. Goodnow on March , 2003. 
Physical therapy needs to work with the patient 3 to 5 times a week to improve her mobility and functional status as per physical therapy recommendations during her stay here. 
Please call Totin Hospital And Clinic or look in the medical records to see what her third MRSA culture report is for nares culture , if it is negative , then she has had 3 negative MRSA cultures and does not need to be in MRSA precautions any longer. 
She needs to follow up with the heart transplant service in 2 to 4 weeks at Pagham University Of . 
eScription document: 0-6121501 ISSten Tel CC: Orval Goodnow M.D. I Warho Hospital Fort Ville CC: Douglass Pettinger MD Sta Bayleighcam Bi Ent O Louis CC: Gaylene Faniel Cou Ville Cuse Napeo Dictated By: BAUCHSPIES , REFUGIA Attending: PETTINGER , DOUGLASS Dictation ID 2669120 D: 4/7/03 T: 4/7/03