664176081 | PUO | 55283816 | | 1956944 | 9/14/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/13/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: ATTENDING: MARJORY SHELA GUMINA MD ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Bradycardia. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: Include bradycardia , diverticulosis and plantar fasciitis. 
Other diagnoses treated over the patient's hospitalization includes insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension , obstructive sleep apnea. 
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: Operations and procedures over her course include colonoscopy. 
No other procedures were performed. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: In brief , the patient is an 82-year-old woman with a history of insulin dependent diabetes and hypertension who is in her usual state of health until the morning of presentation when she was sitting at breakfast she felt an increased in drowsiness and faintness with gradual onset over ten minutes while seated. 
She felt as if she was going to collapse but had no visual or motor deficit. 
She called her daughter. 
Per report , the patient experienced no dysarthria or confusion , no focal motor deficit. 
She stood and walked outside noting no changes with standing. 
She denies fall or loss of consciousness. 
She had some shortness of breath as well as dyspnea on exertion. 
At baseline , she has poor exercise tolerance to less than 30 feet without shortness of breath. 
On the day of presentation this was reduced to less than ten feet. 
She had no chest pain or palpitations , no cough but mild URI symptoms. 
No fevers , chills , nausea or vomiting. 
She did have one subjective temperature the day prior to admission , no change in stools. 
She had some feeling of urinary frequency but no burning , no leg pain or falls. 
She has had no recent change in oral intake. 
Of note , the patient has had multiple presentations to her primary care physician in the past for symptomatic bradycardia for which her medication regimen has been repeatedly changed. 
Of note , she was recently started on Clonidine for her hypertension. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history is notable for insulin dependent diabetes , hypertension , a history of a urinary tract infection in the past , bradycardia , chronic edema in her legs , obstructive sleep apnea. 
She has a history of a positive PPD. 
She is allergic to Lisinopril which gives her angioedema as well as CT contrast dye. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Her medications at the time of admission include Avapro 75 mg b.i.d. , Clonidine 0.2 mg p.o. b.i.d. , atenolol 100 mg p.o. daily , Norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily , insulin NPH 20 b.i.d. , Flonase , Lasix 40 b.i.d. 
She denies tobacco or alcohol use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Her exam showed a temperature of 95.5 , a heart rate of 40 , blood pressure of 140/60 , respiratory rate of 18 , oxygen saturation 99% on room air. 
She is comfortable. 
She is fatigued with no acute distress. 
Her extraocular movements are intact. 
She has no scleral icterus. 
Her neck is supple with a JVP of approximately 12. 
Her heart is regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 are normal. 
She is bradycardic. 
She has no murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
Lungs are clear bilaterally without wheezes or rales. 
Her abdomen is obese but soft , nontender , no pulsatile liver is appreciated. 
Extremities are warm and well perfused with 3+ edema to the knees. 
She is alert and oriented x3. 
Her reflexes are 2+ bilaterally , 5/5 strength in bilateral upper and lower extremities. 
Her cranial nerves are all intact. 
ADMISSION LABS: Admission labs are notable for a hematocrit of 35.8 , a BUN of 21 , and a creatinine of 1.4 which is essentially at the patient's baseline. 
The patient had three sets of cardiac enzymes which were all negative for ischemia. 
She had blood cultures drawn which have returned no growth to date. 
Her TSH at time of admission was 2.55 within the range of normal. 
Chest x-ray showed low lung volumes , cardiomegaly without effusion or consolidation. 
EKG was sinus rhythm 40 bpm , no Q waves , no T wave inversions , no new ST segment elevation or depression. 
Her QT corrected is 431 milliseconds. 
She had an echo January , 2004 showing an ejection fraction of 65% and normal valves. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Cardiovascular: The patient was admitted for workup and treatment of her symptomatic bradycardia. 
On reviewing the patient's past medical records , it was noted that she had experienced similar symptoms with episodes of bradycardia related to medications in the past. 
She was noted to be on atenolol which had been a longstanding medication for her as well as Clonidine which had only been started in the preceding 2-3 days. 
Atenolol was discontinued at the time of admission as it had nodal blocking properties. 
Additionally , Clonidine was also discontinued for its potential rare adverse reaction of causing bradycardia and at times heart block. 
Her heart rate gradually improved over the course of her admission and by the time of dictation her heart rate ranged from 60-75 at rest. 
The patient was evaluated while inhouse. 
The patient had no loss of consciousness , anginal chest symptoms or worsening of her hypertension during this period. 
She was evaluated by the Cardiology Service at I Warho Hospital on the day following admission who found the patient likely not to require pacemaker. 
The recommendation of the Cardiology Service additionally recommended to hold Clonidine and consider restarting atenolol at a low dose of 25 mg p.o. daily. 
The patient was subsequently re-evaluated by the Electrophysiology Service at the I Warho Hospital which assessed the patient to likely not require a pacemaker given her improvement of her bradycardia with the discontinuation of her nodally active medications. 
The patient was maintained on telemetry over the course of her hospitalization with no new or dangerous arrhythmias noted. 
In terms of ischemia , the patient had a negative workup for cardiac ischemia by enzymes x3 and had no further anginal symptoms or changes in her EKG to indicate myocardial ischemia or infarction. 
In terms of her pump function , the patient was assessed to be volume up at the time of admission and treated with one dose of Lasix 40 IV. 
She was subsequently continued on her outpatient dose of Lasix 40 p.o. and will be discharged on Lasix 40 p.o. b.i.d. 
She was noted to have some improvement in her lower extremity edema over her hospital course but it was assessed to be chronic and likely not an issue to be further assessed by her outpatient physician. 
In summary , the patient will be discharged to home without further use of atenolol. 
The recommendation of the hospital team is that the patient continue on her discharge medications for hypertensive control. 
These will be Avapro 75 mg p.o. b.i.d. as well as Norvasc 10 mg daily. 
It is recommended that if the patient has poorly controlled hypertension as an outpatient , she will undergo a trial with an agent that has no activity at the sinoatrial node. 
Our recommended agent would be doxazosin. 
If the patient continues to have bradycardia related to medications and is unable to have her hypertension controlled by medications that do not cause bradycardia , she may need to be re-evaluated by the electrophysiology service for placement of a pacemaker. 
At this time though , there is no recommended electrophysiologic workup remaining for the patient. 
2. Gastrointestinal: At the time of admission , the patient had a known history of diverticulosis by colonoscopy as well as barium enema , but had no history of acute bright red blood per rectum. 
She suddenly developed acute bleeding from her rectum on the evening of November , 2005 to a volume of approximately 1.5 - 2 liters. 
The patient was clearly orthostatic and unable to stand without dizziness. 
She had no pain with this bleeding and had no evidence of hematemesis. 
The patient was transfused to a total of four units of packed red blood cells with her hematocrit stabilizing in the low 30s following a drop to 28.8. 
She was evaluated by the Gastroenterology Service at I Warho Hospital who took the patient to colonscopy on March . 
She was found on colonoscopy to have nonbleeding diverticuli as well as evidence of fresh blood in the sigmoid colon. 
The diagnosis was thus made that the patient had had a sigmoid diverticular bleed but was currently stable hemodynamically. 
The patient was also assessed by surgery who felt the patient not to be an urgent surgical candidate but recommended nasogastric lavage if the patient were to rebleed and further consultation with surgery in that event. 
The patient was observed to be hemodynamically stable over the remainder of her hospitalization with no evidence of drop in blood pressure or new blood per rectum. 
Her hematocrit remained stable in the range of 30 at time of discharge. 
She is recommended to follow up with her primary care physician for observation and is instructed to return to the Emergency Department immediately if there are any signs of gastrointestinal bleeding and either vomiting of blood or blood in her stool. 
She is maintained on Nexium for gastrointestinal prophylaxis over her course. 
3. Endocrine: The patient has a known history of insulin dependent mellitus and she was maintained on NPH insulin at a dose of 10 units subcutaneously b.i.d. following blood sugars which was reduced from her outpatient dose following blood sugars in the range of 50-60 on day of admission. 
She was also maintained on an insulin sliding scale. 
During her hospitalization , the patient's history of refractory hypertension was concerning for the possibility that she may have some degree of underlying renovascular hypertension. 
She has subsequently underwent a secondary hypertension workup which included an a.m. 
cortisol level which was 10.8 which was in the low range of normal. 
She had an aldosterone level which was 2.8 which was low and a plasmin renin activity 0.1 which is low. 
She completed a 24 hour urine collection and the urine levels of cortisol metanephrines and normetanephrines are still outstanding. 
It is recommended that she follow up these levels with her outpatient physician. 
As stated above , the patient's blood pressure was well controlled on Norvasc and Avapro and on the morning of dictation her systolic blood pressure was 120 mmHg. 
4. Musculoskeletal: Beginning on January , the patient began to complain of bilateral foot cramps worse in the plantar aspect of her foot but also on the dorsum of her foot which were exacerbated by dorsi and plantar flexion. 
She also described vague pain in her right lateral calves. 
She subsequently underwent lower extremity noninvasive ultrasound studies which demonstrated no evidence of venous clots in either of her legs. 
On exam , her legs demonstrated no tenderness to palpation over her major joints and no evidence of frank inflammation. 
She was assessed to likely have plantar fasciitis on the basis of examination. 
The case was discussed with Rheumatology who recommended Tylenol as well as hot or cold packs. 
The patient subsequently received these treatments with improvement of her symptoms. 
At the time of discharge though she continues to have some left foot pain and Rheumatology has been consulted to evaluate the patient more fully. 
Their recommendations are pending at time of dictation. 
The patient complained of difficulty walking secondary to this bilateral foot pain and will be discharged to a rehabilitation facility for further care. 5. Infectious disease: The patient had a urinalysis at the time of admission as well as blood cultures , both of which were negative. 
Her chest x-ray at time of admission was without infiltrate. 
6. ENT: The patient was continued on her Flonase at her outpatient dose , stable without new complaints at time of dictation. 
7. Prophylaxis: The patient was maintained on Lovenox for DVT prophylaxis which was subsequently discontinued following her diverticular bleed. 
She is maintained on Nexium for gastrointestinal prophylaxis. 
She will be discharged to a rehabilitation facility in stable condition. 
FOLLOW UP PLAN: Follow up plan for her is with her primary care physician , Dr. Kleinschmidt Dr. Krommes is advised to follow the patient's urinary cortisol as well as her 24 hour urine metanephrines and normetanephrine levels. 
It is recommended that he continue to follow his hypertension closely as he has been and use whenever possible agents without sinoatrial nodal activity. 
Recommended next agent if the patient continues to have refractory hypertension would be doxazosin. 
The patient is advised to pursue a high fiber diet in the context of her diverticulitis and is advised to return to medical care immediately if there are any new signs of gastrointestinal bleeding or vomiting of blood. 
Again , the patient is not assessed to be a candidate for a pacemaker at this time due to the likely medication related bradycardia that she experienced although she continues to have new symptomatic bradycardia. 
It is recommended that she return for re-evaluation to the Electrophysiology Service. 
She is recommended to follow up with physical therapy as an inpatient at a rehabilitation facility and then follow up with Podiatry if indicated. 
Please note the patient's NPH insulin dosing was decreased from her outpatient level from 20 to 14 units subcutaneously b.i.d. given the patient's episodes of hypoglycemia on the day of admission during which she was receiving 20 units subcutaneously. 
It is advised that her rehabilitation facility check daily fingersticks with meals and adjust her NPH dosing as appropriate. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Discharge medications will include Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , NPH insulin 14 units subcutaneously b.i.d. , Norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily , Flonase 1-2 sprays daily , Avapro 75 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6h. 
eScription document: 0-0071167 DBSSten Tel Dictated By: BERNAS , RUFUS Attending: GUMINA , MARJORY SHELA Dictation ID 6244099 D: 10/24/05 T: 10/24/05