958458341 | PUO | 53494999 | | 607945 | 2/6/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/29/1996 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 4/16/1996 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: NON Q WAVE MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 53-year-old woman with mild mental retardation , schizophrenia , and borderline diabetes mellitus who was transferred from Whid Downdoc Rehabilitation Of for further cardiac evaluation after a non Q wave myocardial infarction. 
She was in her usual state of health until August 1995 when her family reports she began to have intermittent abdominal pain and shortness of breath. 
It continued to worsen until October 1996 when she presented to her primary medical doctor and was diagnosed with a upper respiratory infection and treated with antibiotics and Theo-Dur. 
At that time , the family noticed she had an increasing shortness of breath , lethargy , and now significant weight gain. 
They reported about 35 lb per week. 
On the date of admission to the Whid Downdoc Rehabilitation Of , she was ambulating , but became extremely short of breath with severe abdominal pain. 
They took her to the hospital and she was admitted for what they thought was primary gastrointestinal process , but they noted increasing GGTs without alkaline phosphatase changes in her laboratory panel. 
She was placed on a rule out myocardial infarction protocol and subsequently ruled in for a non Q wave myocardial infarction with CKs of 235 , 6.3% , 246 , 7.7% MBs and 197 , 7.6% MBs. 
Her EKG showed anterolateral myocardial infarction/ischemic myocardial infarction. 
Her echo at Whid Downdoc Rehabilitation Of showed decreased LV function per report. 
Since admission there , she had had repeated episodes of chest pain/abdominal discomfort from 7/11/96 to 5/25/96 , and she was transferred to the Pagham University Of for further evaluation. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Mild mental retardation , schizophrenia , borderline diabetes mellitus , and morbid obesity. 
She has a history of coronary artery disease in her family. 
She lives with her sister. 
Her daughters are in the area. 
Her cardiac risk factors include family history , borderline hypertension. 
She does not smoke or drink. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is an obese woman in no obvious distress. 
The patient had dry mucous membranes. 
Her neck and JVP were difficult to assess secondary to body habitus. 
She had a left IJ catheter in place. 
She had distant heart sounds without murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
Lungs had crackles 1/4 of the way up bilaterally. 
Abdomen was markedly obese with a right upper quadrant tenderness to deep palpation. 
She had edema from her feet up to her abdominal canis. 
She had 4+ edema to her hips. 
There were 2+ pulses DP and PT. Femoral pulses were difficult to assess. 
The patient was alert and oriented times three and able to understand questions , but she had decreased verbal skills. 
LABORATORY DATA: SMA-20 and CBC were within normal range. 
Her LDH was slightly elevated at 419 , alkaline phosphatase elevated at 746. 
Total protein was decreased at 6.4 , albumin decreased at 3.6. 
Her digoxin level was 0.4. 
She was on heparin with a PTT of 58.8. 
EKG showed a sinus rhythm of 89 , poor R wave progression , old ischemic myocardial infarction , T wave inversions in 1 , L , and V5-V6. 
Chest x-ray , by report from Whid Downdoc Rehabilitation Of , showed mild cardiomegaly , pulmonary venous hypertension , elevated right hemidiaphragm. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: On transfer , the patient was evaluated with an echocardiogram which showed global hypokinesis with an ejection fraction of 20% and severely dilated heart. 
Cardiac catheterization was contemplated to rule out ischemia as her source of cardiomyopathy , but given that catheterization would likely require intubation secondary to sedation given her psych issues , the decision was made to pursue a more conservative course with treatment of medication. 
She was aggressively treated for congestive heart failure with digoxin , Ace inhibitor , and IV Lasix and she continued to get IV Lasix b.i.d. 40 mg. 
She remained stable while in the hospital and , after several days of diuresis , her edema slowly improved. 
Her breathing improved and she began to ambulate. 
She lost approximately 8 kg while in hospital. 
Her second issue was gastrointestinal. 
She continued to have , on admission , an elevated LDH and alkaline phosphatase in the absence of significant transaminases , it was not consistent with passive congestion alone. 
We continued to follow them and they eventually drifted down. 
The source of her elevations were never clear. 
We checked the ammonia level which was normal and a sedimentation rate which was normal. 
Her third issue was Infectious Disease. 
Her urine , by report at Whid Downdoc Rehabilitation Of , had greater than 10-15 E.coli. 
She was not treated with antibiotics. 
We repeated the urinalysis here and began ampicillin on p.o. for a urinary tract infection , which she continued for a full 10 day course. 
They felt that her urinary tract infection was secondary to limited ambulation and her body habitus. 
The fourth issue was fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition. 
She had total body edema and anasarca with slightly decreased protein and albumin , but most likely secondary to severe congestive heart failure. 
Her mucous membranes were dry , but felt this was secondary to her breathing and possible intervascular depletion. 
All of these issues cleared as she was diuresed. 
The fifth issue was psych. 
We continued her medications and contacted her family for support while she was in the hospital. 
The patient did well and once she was able to walk around with physical therapy , she was discharged on Lasix , digoxin , and with VNA. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Elavil 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. , aspirin ECASA 325 mg p.o. q.day , Cogentin 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. , digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.day , Lasix 60 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Haldol 10 mg p.o. q.day , Ativan 1 mg p.o. b.i.d. , and lisinopril 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: She is being discharged in stable condition with VNA follow up. 
Dictated By: GWYNETH A. DEPSKY , M.D. AS80 Attending: IRVING M. ESCALANTE , M.D. NL16 GD879/8759 Batch: 83812 Index No. Y7TYYK3NJH D: 1/2/96 T: 8/25/96 CC: 1. SWISS , SHONNA LAVONA G. NL16 2. FANIEL none