348893917 | PUO | 00979234 | | 3999446 | 11/25/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/6/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 1/9/2005 ATTENDING: SHOPBELL , MYRIAM M.D. SERVICE: Son PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Cardiomyopathy , coronary artery disease. 
PROBLEM LIST AND DIAGNOSIS: 1. Morbid obesity. 
2. Diabetes. 
3. Hypertension. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 51-year-old woman with morbid obesity ( greater than 330 pounds ) , hypertension , diabetes mellitus who presents with one week of increasing dyspnea on exertion. 
She notes that she can no longer walk from room to room without resting and she used to be able to walk around her house. 
She also notes a frequent need to "get air" which also wakes her from sleep. 
She often opens the window , turns on the air conditioning , etc. when she feels short of breath. 
She started sleeping on two pillows over the past few weeks. 
She also reports an intermittent increase in her leg swelling and a cough productive of scant clear to whitish sputum. 
She was unable to name her home medications , but stated that she took four medications plus insulin which is in accordance with her LMR notes. 
She has not been able to check her fingerstick blood glucose levels recently because her machine has been broken. 
She denies chest pain , tightness except with coughing. 
She denies pleuritic pain , any recent illness , any sick contacts , any change in urinary or bowel habits , any nausea or vomiting , night sweats , diaphoresis or pain in her jaw or arms. 
Of note , her KTDUOO primary care physician , Dr. Alverta Burvine , note from September 2004 noted tachycardia greater than 100 with decreased exercise tolerance , inability to lie flat , and snoring and daytime sleepiness. 
At this time , an echocardiogram performed in January 2004 revealed an EF of 60 to 65% , trace PR and no regional wall motion abnormality. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension. 
Bilateral DVTs in 1972. 
The patient is not currently on anticoagulation. 
She was on Coumadin for one year following this event. 
Dysfunctional vaginal bleeding. 
Fibroids. 
Type II diabetes mellitus. 
Morbid obesity. 
Pituitary microadenoma. 
HOME MEDICATIONS: ( Per LMR - the patient confirms these as best she can recollect ). 1. HCTZ 25 mg daily. 
2. Glucophage 500 mg PO b.i.d. 3. NPH insulin 60 q.a.m. , 20 q.p.m. 4. Lisinopril 40 mg. 5. Iron supplements. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient denies tobacco use , alcohol use , drugs. 
She lives with her daughter who is one of her four children , and eight of her 14 grandchildren in Cuse A Wa She does not work. 
No known MI's. 
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 98.8. 
Heart rate 137 , down to 98 with 5 mg of IV Lopressor in the Emergency Department. 
Blood pressure 156/98 , satting 95% on room air. 
In general , the patient is an obese , pleasant woman in no apparent distress. 
HEENT: Extraocular muscles are intact. 
Mucous membranes moist. 
No JVD. 
Cardiovascular exam reveals tachycardia , S1 , S2. No murmurs , rubs or gallops but heart sounds are distant and difficult to assess. 
Lungs: Decreased breath sounds throughout secondary to body habitus , but no crackles or wheeze noted. 
Abdomen: Soft , nontender , nondistended. 
Extremities warm and well perfused. 
Bilateral pitting edema to shins. 
Derm: No ulcers or lesions. 
Hyperpigmentation noted around neck and under breasts. 
GU exam: Very trace guaiac positive stool. 
ADMISSION LABORATORY RESULTS: Notable for a blood glucose of 190 , BNP of 271 , and hematocrit of 32. ??_____?? EKG: Sinus tachycardia at 118 with no ST or T-wave abnormalities. 
Chest x-ray revealed mild cardiomegaly. 
No pulmonary edema. 
No infiltrate. 
PE protocol CT ruled out central PE and showed a small right pleural effusion. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: 1. Cardiovascular: Ischemia: The patient had cycled electrocardiograms and biomarkers. 
These were negative for myocardial ischemia or any acute change. 
The patient was maintained on aspirin , Lipitor 80 mg , beta-blocker , and ACE inhibitor. 
The patient underwent cardiac catheterization on 8/10/05 which revealed a 50% LAD lesion , a 70% D1 lesion. 
These lesions were not intervened upon at the time of dictation. 
This patient is awaiting viability study. 
Pump: The patient underwent echocardiography on 5/19/05. 
The findings of that study were very concerning revealing ejection fraction of 20 to 25% , sharply decreased from EF of 60 to 65% in January 2004. 
In addition , the study revealed global hypokinesis with septal akinesis. 
Rhythm: The patient has remained tachycardic and has been monitored on tele with no noted abnormalities. 
On the night of 8/10/05 following cardiac catheterization , the patient had a 13 beat run of nonsustained V. tach on telemetry. 
She received electrolyte optimization and close monitoring. 
Following this episode , the patient's cycled cardiac biomarkers revealed a troponin of 7.25 , MB fraction of 31 , CK of 283. 
As noted above , she will undergo cardiac viability study on 4/30/05 and may receive evaluation by the Electrophysiology Service. 
2. Pulmonary: The patient's initial presentation was suspicious for pulmonary embolism given her distant past medical history of DVT's. 
However , when she was admitted , she exhibited only tachycardia without evidence of tachypnea or hypoxia and her clinical course thus far , as well as her PE protocol CT is not suggestive of this diagnosis. 
She has had a minimal oxygen requirement over the course of her hospital stay. 
She does experience dyspnea on exertion , however , has not been hypoxic at any point. 
3. Endocrine: TSH was normal. 
The patient was continued on her oral hypoglycemic as well as an adjusted insulin regimen which will be further altered prior to the patient's discharge. 
In addition , she will be discharged with a prescription for a new blood glucose monitor. 
Her last hemoglobin A1c check was close to 12. Given her concerning findings of coronary artery disease , she will need to maintain much tighter control of her blood glucose in the future. 
At the time of dictation , the patient is being maintained on scheduled NPH as well as regular insulin sliding scale. 
4. Hematologic: Baseline anemia with admission hematocrit improved from prior infectious diseases. 
The patient's productive cough was thought to be not due to infection. 
The patient has remained afebrile with normal white blood cell count over the course of her hospital stay. 
The remainder of this patient's hospital course and her discharge medications will be dictated in a future addendum. 
eScription document: 1-1756178 MCSFocus transcriptionists Dictated By: SURGEON , PRICILLA Attending: SHOPBELL , MYRIAM Dictation ID 5430527 D: 9/15/05 T: 9/15/05