601453381 | PUO | 58735436 | | 688357 | 3/11/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/29/1994 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 2/29/1994 PRINCIPLE DIAGNOSIS: HYPOTENSIVE EPISODE. 
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS: 1. End stage renal disease on chronic hemodialysis. 
2. Mild mental retardation. 
3. Movement disorder ( tics ). 4. Status post parathyroidectomy. 
5. Partial thyroidectomy. 
6. Status post partial gastrectomy for peptic ulcer disease. 
7. History of MRSA from wound in 1988. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 46-year-old gentleman with end stage renal disease on chronic hemodialysis who was admitted status post fall and seizure. 
The patient's end stage renal disease is thought to be secondary to hypertension , although he has never had a renal biopsy. 
He has been on hemodialysis since 1987 , having dialysis three times a week. 
His dry weight is about 85 to 86 kilos. 
His dialysis has been complicated by multiple episodes in the past of hypotension and seizure activity occurring after dialysis. 
These episodes occur about once a month. 
On the day of admission , the patient came home from routine hemodialysis where he was ultrafiltered 5.5 kilograms of fluid and his final blood pressure after dialysis was 100/60. 
At noon , the patient went home , ate lunch and went up to his room. 
At that time he complained of feeling dizzy and sitting on the edge of the bed told his uncle that he was not feeling well and then slumped onto the floor. 
He does not believe that he hurt himself , i.e. , did not hurt his head , although he did complain of some right foot pain. 
He was still conscious as his uncle lifted him back to bed and then an ambulance was called. 
After a few minutes , the patient lost consciousness , rolling his eyes back with some facial twitching bilaterally and tongue retraction. 
This episode lasted about five minutes. 
There was no tongue biting , no urinary incontinence or bowel incontinence. 
The patient gained full recovery of his alertness upon waking up but was a bit diaphoretic. 
His aunt checked his vital signs which were blood pressure 70/40 , pulse 79. 
The patient had also complained of chest pain for a few minutes prior to his episode. 
When the EMTs arrived , the patient was alert and oriented times three , cold and clammy , temperature 98.6 , pulse 89 , respirations 26 , blood pressure 82/60. 
The patient was brought to the emergency room and was orthostatic by blood pressure ( 10 points ) from lying to sitting. 
He was given 500 ccs of normal saline and was no longer orthostatic , comfortably sitting up in the bed. 
At about 9:00 p.m. he complained of feeling dizzy and became diaphoretic while trying to stand up. 
The patient was again brought into bed. 
He became unresponsive for one minute with his eyes rolled up and some bilateral face twitching. 
This episode only lasted about one minute. 
The patient was admitted for observation. 
Past medical history reveals the following: 1 ) Mild mental retardation since about 10 years ago. 
2 ) Movement disorder ( tics ) on Stelazine. 3 ) End stage renal disease thought to be secondary to hypertension. 
4 ) Status post parathyroidectomy for secondary hyperparathyroidism. 5 ) Partial thyroidectomy for goiter incidentally found at surgery. 
6 ) Status post partial gastrectomy for peptic ulcer disease in the 1960's. 
7 ) History of MRSA from wound in 1988. 
8 ) Hepatitis B surface antibody positive and hepatitis C virus positive. 
Medications on admission: Calcium carbonate , 1250 mg PO tid; nephrocaps , 1 PO qd; DHT , 0.2 mg PO qd; Stelazine , 2 mg PO tid. 
There are no known allergies. 
Social history: The patient was a former smoker and has a history of alcohol abuse but no IV drug use. 
He lives with his aunt and uncle and is mildly retarded. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination , vital signs showed a lying blood pressure of 96/60 , pulse 80 , sitting up blood pressure 104/70 , pulse 96 , temperature 97.5 , O2 sat 95% on room air. 
The patient was a well nourished , black male in no apparent distress. 
HEENT exam was unremarkable. 
Neck showed JVD of 4 cms. 
No lymphadenopathy. 
Chest was clear to auscultation. 
Heart revealed S1 , S2 , normal rate and rhythm with a 1/6 systolic murmur best heard at the left upper sternal border. 
No CVA tenderness. 
Abdomen was soft , nontender , no masses. 
Bowel sounds were positive. 
The patient was guaiac negative with brown stool. 
Extremities revealed a tender , edematous dorsal aspect of right foot , with full range of motion at the ankle joint. 
Left extremity benign. 
Neuro exam was grossly nonfocal. 
LABORATORY DATA: On admission , sodium 142 , potassium 4.8 , chloride 94 , bicarb 32 , BUN 38 , creatinine 8.6 , glucose 168. 
A CBC revealed white count of 8.82 , hematocrit 35 , platelets 246. 
Calcium was 9.7. 
Chest x-ray revealed mild pulmonary vascular redistribution with no significant CHF and no infiltrates. 
Ankle x-rays on the right revealed no fracture or dislocation. 
EKG revealed normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 76 , axis 2 degrees , some 1 mm ST elevations in I and AVL , T-waves flat in lead III. 
The slight elevations in ST were consistent with EKG on 1/9/94. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was observed overnight and put on an oral renal diet , checking orthostatics frequently. 
The patient remained asymptomatic throughout his hospital course and remained hemodynamically stable with no orthostasis. 
The patient was evaluated by the renal service who assessed that this episode was most likely secondary to the extensive fluid removal from dialysis leading to a low blood pressure. 
In addition , they noted that seizures and orthostasis are often seen status post dialysis in some patients. 
They recommended no further work up of this seizure episode and recommended no prophylaxis with an antiepileptic. 
The patient underwent dialysis again on 6/5/94 per schedule. 
After this dialysis , the patient was asymptomatic , not orthostatic and did not complain of any light headedness. 
As the patient complained of right foot pain , right foot films were obtained which revealed nondisplaced fractures of the second , third , fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. 
Orthopaedic service was consulted who put the patient in a bivalve cast with a toe plate. 
Physical therapy was consulted. 
The patient was allowed to sit in a chair and engage in nonweight bearing activities. 
His foot was elevated on three pillows for 72 hours. 
The patient remained hemodynamically stable and now awaits placement into a skilled nursing facility for rehabilitation , given his casted right lower leg. 
DISPOSITION: The patient will be discharged on his medications from admission which include: 1 ) Nephrocaps , 1 PO qd. 2 ) Calcium carbonate , 1250 mg PO tid. 3 ) DHT , 0.2 mg PO qd. 4 ) Stelazine , 2 mg PO tid. 
The patient will be seen again in orthopaedics clinic on Friday , 5/13/94 at 9:15 a.m. 
The patient is discharged in stable condition to a rehab/skilled nursing facility per wishes of patient , family and per recommendation of physical therapy. 
Dictated By: COLLEEN TOHER , M.D. Attending: CHARLEEN A. IVEL , M.D. UM17 AP881/2794 Batch: 068 Index No. HSVC241ZGI D: 5/6/94 T: 5/6/94