750395034 | PUO | 51756156 | | 183898 | 10/29/2002 12:00:00 AM | HEPATIC ENCEPHALOPATHY | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/18/2002 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 9/1/2002 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 57-year-old status post a massive gastrointestinal bleed in April of 2001 who was transferred to the Totin Hospital And Clinic Hospital for a TIPS procedure which failed. 
She proceeded to go to surgery at that time for a splenorenal shunt. 
She was recently discharged from the Pagham University Of on August , 2002. 
During the hospitalization , she had a complicating course with encephalopathy , but she was able to be controlled with lactulose and discharged to rehabilitation. 
She at that time also had complications with infections for which she completed a course of antibiotics. 
At rehabilitation , she was doing fairly well , but her ammonia had been high. 
The highest was 196 on March , 2002. 
The patient has also had increased confusion , increased abdominal girth. 
When the daughters went in to visit her today , she was completely disoriented , complaining of abdominal pain. 
The daughters also report subjective fevers and chills. 
At the rehabilitation , her vital signs were notable for a blood pressure of 94/60 , temperature 99.2. 
Per the daughters , the diet had not been followed at rehabilitation and she was eating hot dogs. 
She was also given benzodiazepines for sleep , up to 60-75 mg q. day of Oxazepam. 
Per report , she had increased confusion and more acutely in the last two days. 
In the emergency room on arrival , her blood pressure was in the 120s , 98% on room air , she was febrile. 
She was given levofloxacin , Flagyl and ampicillin. 
A Gastrointestinal consult was called. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Cirrhosis secondary to hepatitis C , grade 4 esophageal varices , encephalopathy , status post a frontal craniotomy , status post a motor vehicle accident with a subdural hematoma , peptic ulcer disease. 
ALLERGIES: The patient has no known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER: Spironolactone 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , olanzapine unknown dose , Flagyl which she had completed her course for Clostridium difficile , albuterol and Atrovent nebulizers , lactulose 120 mg q.6h. 
, Lopressor 50 mg t.i.d. , Serax 30 mg , Duragesic patch , Neomycin 2 grams q.i.d. , Oxazepam 30 mg q.h.s. and 15 mg q.8h. 
p.r.n. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with one of her daughters. 
She has a remarkable history of tobacco for 30 years , one pack per day , recently quit. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 101.1 , heart rate 99-120 , blood pressure 94-149/55-71 , oxygen saturation 99% on room air. 
GENERAL: She was a well-nourished , well-developed lady who was confused and agitated. 
HEENT: Remarkable for icteric sclera. 
LUNGS: Clear. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: She had a regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 normal. 
Jugular venous pressure was flat. 
ABDOMEN: Positive for bowel sounds , soft , but distended. 
She reports tenderness on palpation. 
RECTAL: Guaiac-positive per emergency department. 
EXTREMITIES: Her right lower extremity had erythema , painful to the touch , no warmth and no cords. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Positive for asterixis. 
She was alert and oriented to person , but not to time and confused about the place. 
She was unable to carry on a conversation and unable to keep attentive. 
Her strength was 5/5 and her sensation was intact. 
LABORATORY: Laboratory data was remarkable for a sodium of 130 , potassium 4.9 , chloride 102 , bicarbonate 17 , BUN 9 , creatinine 0.8 and glucose 100. 
Her ALT was 16 , AST 72 , alkaline phosphatase 118 , amylase 15 and lipase 33. 
Her ammonia level was 45 , albumin 3.2 , total bilirubin 2.4. 
Her hematocrit was 29.1. 
Her INR was 1.4. 
EKG was normal sinus rhythm. 
Abdominal CT scan showed that she had no abscess , no obstruction , no acute abdominal process. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1 ) Gastrointestinal: At the time of admission , it was a confusing picture for increased abdominal girth , however the CT scan showed that she had very little ascites and on examination , little tenderness. 
Therefore , she got a paracentesis which was negative for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. 
The patient was treated with cefotaxime and Flagyl for possible spontaneous bacterial peritonitis , continued on the lactulose and her diuretics. 
However , the patient much improved from the gastrointestinal standpoint and after resolution of her infectious picture ( see below ) , the patient was doing incredibly well with spironolactone and Lasix. 
She has not been able to tolerate her beta blocker secondary to hypotension. 
During her hospitalization , her hematocrit has been stable. 
A gastrointestinal consult was obtained. 
I appreciate their input. 
They recommend to follow up with the Transplant Team. 
She has an appointment to see the Transplant Team on July , 2002. 
At this time , it is recommended that she begin to get work-up for a liver transplant. 
However , her hematocrit and her INR remained stable throughout the hospitalization. 
2 ) Infectious disease: The patient was negative for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis , however on the second day of hospitalization , she grew out 4/4 bottles with gram positive cocci in pairs which speciated to be Streptococcus Group B. Therefore , the antibiotics were tailored and she was started on nafcillin intravenously. 
The patient then had a PICC line placed and she will continue treatment of two weeks with intravenous penicillin. 
The patient has been doing very well with resolution of her erythema. 
Infectious Disease Service consult was obtained. 
I appreciate their input. 
They suggested two weeks of intravenous penicillin. 
3 ) Cardiovascular/hematology: Given the swelling of the leg , the patient had lower extremity ultrasounds which were negative for clot. 
Otherwise , she remained in normal sinus rhythm and no symptoms of congestive heart failure. 
4 ) Psychiatry: The patient was very confused , most likely delirium. 
Psychiatry input was greatly appreciated. 
Another reason for her confusion was the fact that she was getting much benzodiazepines at her rehabilitation before. 
She was weaned off her benzodiazepines and started on olanzapine and titrated up as tolerated. 
Therefore , we highly recommend avoiding benzodiazepines in this patient and continue with olanzapine which can take p.r.n. as well as needed. 
5 ) Vascular: Vascular Surgery followed this patient during her hospitalization and deemed that her splenorenal shunt was working well with no evidence of leak. 
DISPOSITION: The patient is sent to rehabilitation for further treatment and finishing of her antibiotic course. 
At this point , she has requested a new primary care physician and this will be myself. 
I will follow her with an appointment in July , which I have scheduled for her. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Nexium 20 mg p.o. q. day , olanzapine 5 mg p.o. q. PM and olanzapine 2.5 mg p.o. q.8h. 
p.r.n. , Atrovent inhalers , Azmacort , spironolactone 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , penicillin 3 million units intravenously q.4h. 
for a complete course of two weeks , Nico-Derm 14 mg a day topical , Lopressor 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. which is to be held if her systolic blood pressure is less than 100 , lactulose 30 ml p.o. t.i.d. , Motrin p.r.n. for pain and Lasix 40 mg p.o. q. day. 
Dictated By: ENA MARLATT , M.D. UJ77 Attending: DEANDRA L. GILFOY , M.D. HC88 HL267/511640 Batch: 8014 Index No. IPJKOC2G96 D: 10/12/02 T: 10/12/02