461325320 | PUO | 42567215 | | 036352 | 3/18/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/23/1994 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/20/1994 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: 1. DIABETIC KETOACIDOSIS 2. DIABETES MELLITUS 3. ENDOMETRIOSIS 4. HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA 5. STATUS POST REPAIR OF THE OSTIUM PRIMUM ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECT IN 1975 6. MITRAL REGURGITATION 7. HEMATEMESIS SECONDARY TO A MALLORY WEISS TEAR IN April 1994. 
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Ms. Schraub is a 31 year-old black female with diabetes mellitus ( insulin requiring ) who is admitted with emesis and diabetic ketoacidosis. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Diabetes mellitus was diagnosed in 1984 after the patient presented with a history of polyuria , polydipsia , fatigue. 
She was treated with oral hypoglycemics initially. 
In 1985 she was hospitalized for a questionable episode of diabetic ketoacidosis with recurrent polydipsia , polyuria , nausea and vomiting and she was changed to insulin treatment. 
Subsequently , the patient had intermittent compliance , with occasional dietary indiscretions with greater than 2500 calories intake and decreased exercise. 
Her dose of insulin in 1991 was Humulin N 40 units subcutaneous qam and 20 units qpm with regular insulin 5 units qam and 5 units qpm added. 
In April of 1993 her glycosylated hemoglobin ( hemoglobin A1C ) was 20.2 and her finger stick blood glucose was 265. 
On August , 1993 her finger stick blood glucose ranged from 96 to 189. 
In October 1994 her insulin dosing was 40 units subcutaneous qam and regular 5 units qam , 5 units of regular q noon and 5 units qpm. 
In early October of 1994 her finger stick blood glucoses ranged between 160 and 240. 
She indicated she was depressed about her diabetes. 
On January she awoke at 5 am and had 10 episodes of emesis progressing from clear to greenish to black. 
She noted that she had felt well the day previous with no dietary indiscretions and had taken her insulin as usual on the days prior to this episode. 
She denied any abdominal pain , there was no history of fever or chills and no diarrhea. 
There was also no immediate complaint of hematemesis. 
The patient went to Carna Home Hospital Urgent Care unable to hold down her food intake and blood sugar was noted to be 333. 
She received 5 units of subcutaneous insulin and her blood sugar went to 247. 
She also received intravenous fluids , 25 mg of Compazine and 0.5 mg of intravenous Ativan. 
The patient had serum ketones present and her serum bicarb was 16 , initially noted at Carna Home Hospital She was transferred to Pagham University Of Emergency Department for further management. 
The patient's recent creatinine clearance in the urine was 70 , her urine total protein was 177 mg for 24 hours. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Notable for adult onset diabetes mellitus requiring insulin , endometriosis , status post exploratory laparotomy in 1990. 
She was never pregnant , para 0 , gravida 0. She had a history of dysmenorrhea. 
She had a history of yeast vaginitis , history of hypercholesterolemia and a history of atrial septal defect , repaired in 1975. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: At the time of admission , the patient was on insulin Lente 40 units subcutaneous qam , regular 5 units subcutaneous qam and 5 units subcutaneous q noon , 5 units subcutaneous qpm; demulon and lupron for 9 months which was discontinued several days prior to admission. 
ALLERGIES: To Penicillin and sulfa drugs , the results of which were not clear. 
Also , aspirin caused epistaxis in the past. 
FAMILY AND SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives by herself. 
She works as a lawyer and professor of law. 
She noted that her family history is positive for adult onset diabetes mellitus in her mother and her grandmother as well as a family history of hypertension. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Revealed metromenorrhagia and increased menstrual flow recently. 
She also noted she had decreased her exercise recently. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On physical examination her vital signs were as follows: Temperature 99.7 , heart rate of 127 , blood pressure and respiratory rate normal. 
She was a pleasant , young , black female frequently vomiting. 
HEENT: Notable for normal examination. 
Neck supple. 
There was brisk carotid upstrokes , no thyromegaly was noted. 
Lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion. 
Heart was tachycardic. 
S1 and S2 with a holosystolic murmur heard at the apex radiating to the left sternal border. 
There was an early decrescendo diastolic murmur at the base in the aortic area , the lateral resolved with fluids. 
Abdomen was tender in the epigastrium , it was very tender in the suprapubic area. 
Extremities were without edema , cord cyanosis or erythema. 
Neurological examination was within normal limits on modalities. 
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 140 , potassium 4.5 , chloride 105 , bicarbonate 14 , BUN of 12 , creatinine 0.6 , glucose 290. 
White blood cell count 10.6 , platelets 255 , hematocrit 36.1 with a mean corpuscular volume 85.5. 
Coags were normal. 
Arterial blood gas pH 7.24 , pO2 102 , pCO2 of 27 , bicarbonate 12. 
She was acid test positive. 
Her chest x-ray showed questionably large pulmonary arteries bilaterally. 
There was no infiltrate or effusion noted. 
KUB noted a large bladder. 
There was no bowel gas , we could not rule out ascites. 
EKG was notable for sinus tachycardia at 122 , intervals were 0.15 , 0.088 and 0.47. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Ms. Schraub was admitted with a diagnosis of diabetic ketoacidosis. 
She was started on intravenous fluids of D5 normal saline with 40 mEq of potassium per liter. 
She also received and insulin drip intravenously. 
She had her finger stick blood glucoses checked every 2 hours. 
She also had her blood electrolytes and acid tests checked frequently. 
Given the fact that she was febrile and had presented with acidosis , had a harsh cardiac murmur , she had blood cultures times 3 drawn. 
There were no obvious sources of infection. 
Regarding her GI bleed , she began to cough up coffee ground emesis after repeated episodes of wretching throughout the day. 
The bleeding was thought to be due to a Mallory-Weiss tear due to the excessive vomiting. 
The patient had an NG tube placed for lavage which quickly lavaged clear after approximately 1 liter of diluant. 
A nasal gastric tube was put to Gomco low suction. 
Additionally , the patient had intravenous fluids running and her orthostatics and hematocrit were checked frequently. 
She was started on H2 blockers intravenously and a GI consultation was obtained. 
Regarding the diabetic ketoacidosis , the patient obtained consultation from the Endocrine Division. 
With intravenous fluids and insulin drip her ketoacidosis resolved. 
The endocrinologist suggested the ultimate regimen of insulin which will be described below. 
Notably , the patient indicated that she could not reliably time the midday lunch schedule. 
Therefore , the patient was given some flexibility in terms of dosing of insulin at that hour. 
Regarding her cardiac workup , the patient was noted to have a loud systolic murmur. 
She was evaluated by the Aer Spihungwalt Syssas Medical Center who recommended echocardiography. 
The results of the echocardiogram were as described below. 
The echocardiogram was obtained on 2 of July , the results were as follows: The left atrium was mildly dilated. 
The tricuspid valve leaflet excursion was mildly increased with tricuspid regurgitation measured as 2+ out of 4+ with a peak velocity of 2.5. 
It was thought that she had a mildly dilated right atrium and a mildly concentric hypertrophied left ventricle. 
Mitral regurgitation was 3+ out of 4+. Left ventricular wall thickness was upper limits of normal with preserved left ventricular systolic function ejection fraction of 65 percent. 
The patient abnormalities of her atrial ventricular canal noted consistent with ostium primum. 
Her left and right atrial ventricular grooves inserted at the same level of the intraventricular septum. 
There was some evidence of flow reversal in the pulmonary veins as well as the mitral regurgitation noted above. 
There was a high flow velocity jet seen in the paramembrane of intraventricular septum , moving from left to right , consistent with residual ventricular septal defect. 
There was no atrial septal defect seen status post surgical repair. 
There was a small echocardiogram bright density at the left ventricular site of the paramembranous septum thought to be an anomalous cord attachment from the mitral valve versus endocarditis. 
On January , the patient underwent a transesophageal echocardiogram to evaluate this abnormality seen above. 
There was no evidence of residual atrial septal defect or ventricular septal defect. 
There was an anomalous chordal attachment to the base of the interior leaflet of the mitral valve and no endocarditis vegetations were seen. 
The patient was noted to have hypertension and was started on Lisinopril , nifedipine was transiently given but was discontinued. 
The patient was discharged in satisfactory condition on October , 1994. 
There were no complications of the hospitalization. 
Operations and procedures of the hospitalization were an esophageal gastroduodenoscopy by Dr. Prey on July , 1994. 
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: At the time of discharge , the patient was on Lisinopril 20 mg po q day; insulin 12 units plus a regular scale qam before breakfast , insulin 8 units plus the scale of regular insulin q noon before lunch , insulin 8 units of regular plus a scale of regular qpm before supper , insulin NPH 15 units subcutaneous qhs. 
The scale of regular insulin was as follows: Less than 80 , drink orange juice; greater than 80 , 1 unit; greater than the 120 , 2 units; greater than the 160 , 3 units; greater than 200 , 4 units; greater than 500 , 5 units; greater than 300 , notify medical doctor. 
FOLLOW UP CARE: The patient was to follow-up with the following physicians: Dr. Ellena Schuneman at the Healtship Ron Offa Memorial Medical Center , also Dr. Rossie Mankoski in the Ted Kingston No Got Hospital and Dr. Bastain in the Endocrinology Clinic. 
The patient was to schedule these appointments herself. 
ESTIMATED DISABILITY: None. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Satisfactory. 
Dictated By: DESIRAE MARCOTT , M.D. JM29 Attending: ELLENA M. SCHUNEMAN , M.D. VF5 FH030/5666 Batch: 1927 Index No. EJTJ4L3VE8 D: 9/16/94 T: 10/6/94 1. ROSSIE K. MANKOSKI , M.D. ZC89 2. MIRNA C. BABULA , M.D. GQ19 Hospital