486594125 | PUO | 84611000 | | 936672 | 8/23/1999 12:00:00 AM | PULMONARY EMBOLUS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/3/1999 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 1/20/1999 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: SHORTNESS OF BREATH. 
PROBLEMS DURING ADMISSION: 1 ) MIGRAINE HEADACHE. 2 ) NONSPECIFIC ABDOMINAL PAIN. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 35 year old female who carries a diagnosis of lupus for seven years , recently discharged with a pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis , on Coumadin and Lovenox , now returns with a complaint of new onset chest pain and sob. 
Previously the patient has been stable with her SLE but had started Plaquenil recently. 
On 9/28/99 she presented to her rheumatologist complaining of intermittent leg swelling for the past year and was found to have left superficial femoral and gastrocnemius DVT. 
She was about to begin Lovenox when she mentioned that she had also experienced occasional pleuritic chest pain over the last five years. 
She then had a V/Q scan which was read as intermediate probability for PE. 
For definitive diagnosis , a pulmonary angiogram was done on 2/28/99 showing bilateral apical small pulmonary emboli. 
She was treated with IV heparin and was started on Coumadin to a therapeutic INR of 2.0. 
She also had an unremarkable echocardiogram at that time. 
On 2/30/99 , the patient returned with increasing wheezing and shortness of breath. 
Her INR was 1.8. 
Work up revealed an intermediate probability right-sided V/Q mismatch with a probable new PE. Repeat echocardiogram showed no right heart strain. 
It was thought that she had had a recurrent PE in the setting of subtherapeutic INR. 
LE DVT was stable on the LENIs. 
She was discharged on Lovenox and Coumadin to obtain a goal INR of 3.0. 
Unfortunately , two days prior to admission , the patient again noted increased dyspnea on exertion. 
She has otherwise been active , feeling well over the past week. 
She denies chest pain , leg pain , wheezing. 
V/Q scan performed on the morning of admission showed new mismatched lesions at the left posterior base and right anterior base. 
She notes stomach upset for the previous four days , recently had an upper GI work up , including an EGD which was negative by patient's report. 
She denies any melena , nausea , vomiting , BRPPR. 
She has been tolerating p.o. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) SLE x 7 years , on Plaquenil recently. 
2 ) Migraine headaches. 
3 ) History of DVT. 4 ) Status post laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
5 ) Status post cesarean section. 
ALLERGIES: Bactrim causing diarrhea , Ceftin causing diarrhea. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Tylenol p.r.n.; Plaquenil 200 mg q. d.; Coumadin 7 mg p.o. q. d.; Lovenox for the previous 6 days; Allegra; Albuterol MDI; Cipro; Heptadine. 
Her father died of leukemia. 
She has two sisters with arthritis and one sister with ulcerative colitis. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has been married for 10 years and has an eight-year-old daughter. 
She is an office worker in Park Stasti Ence and has not worked for the past month. 
She quit smoking on 9/28/99 at the time of her first admission. 
She has 10-15 pack years and denies any history of alcohol or IVDU. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: An obese , pleasant , female in no acute distress. 
Pulse 87. Blood pressure 118/50. 
Saturation 97 percent on room air. 
Afebrile. 
HEENT: Oropharynx is clear. 
Neck is supple without lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly or JVD. 
Lungs are clear to auscultation except scattered rales at the right base. 
Heart normal S1 and S2. 
A II/VI systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border. 
Abdomen - large , obese , nontender , nondistended. 
Extremities - no palpable cords or edema. 
Neurologic - alert and oriented , no focal deficits. 
LABORATORY DATA: Creatinine 0.7 , WBC 105 , hematocrit 40 , platelets 307. 
Electrocardiogram normal sinus rhythm at 86. Normal intervals and axis. 
No ST-T wave abnormalities. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , The patient was placed on intravenous heparin and the Lovenox and Coumadin were discontinued in anticipation for an IVC filter placement the following morning. 
She also received intravenous dihydroergotamine for migraine headaches with good effect by the following morning. 
The following morning , the patient received 2 units of FFP because her INR was 3.0. 
The decision to place a filter was postponed and instead a pulmonary angiogram was performed. 
This revealed no obvious recurrent pulmonary embolism. 
The morning of 10/27/99 , prior to the angiogram , two events occurred. 
First event , the patient was walking to the bathroom and her heart rate was noted to go at 140 beats per minute and was approximately sinus tachycardia or supraventricular tachycardia. 
This resolved after 45 seconds without intervention and did not recur and there were no associated symptoms and the patient was unaware of the event. 
The second event occurred about one hour later and the patient noted approximately 5/10 sharp right lower sternal border chest pain which was not pleuritic and not positional and resolved spontaneously over the next 5 minutes and did not recur. 
She also had some abdominal pain. 
She tolerated p.o.'s without any gastrointestinal symptoms throughout and the pain was mild with a benign abdominal exam. 
This will be pursued by her outpatient physician , if indicated. 
The patient was resumed on Coumadin 10 mg p.o. q. h.s. as well as Lovenox in the interim 100 mg subcu b.i.d. until she achieves a therapeutic INR which was determined by Cardiology to be , 3.5 , given that she has not had a recurrent PE. 
Throughout her stay she remained afebrile and with a saturation of approximately 94-95 percent on room air , breathing comfortably. 
FOLLOWUP: She will follow up with her primary care doctor and have her INR checked in two days. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Cipro heptadine 4 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Plaquenil 200 mg p.o. q. d.; Coumadin 10 mg p.o. q. h.s.; Lovenox 100 mg subcu q. 12h.. DISPOSITION: The patient is discharged home. 
She will follow up with her primary care doctor within one week. 
Dictated By: JOSEFINA KOUGH , M.D. UM87 Attending: MARJORY GUMINA , M.D. PO16 CC: MATHEW STAUTZ MD PCP Batch: 46334 Index No. DIDZP16M0C D: 4/28/99 T: 6/24/99