072781784 | PUO | 83375597 | | 682214 | 4/1/1998 12:00:00 AM | PANCREATITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/7/1998 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 3/24/1998 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 65 year old African-American female with a history of chronic pancreatitis who was recently admitted to the Pagham University Of 5 of November to 6 of July for her chronic pancreatitis who returned on the 20 of August with recurrent abdominal pain and symptoms consistent with her chronic pancreatitis. 
Prior studies by abdominal CT scan had showed findings consistent with chronic pancreatitis , such as multiple calcifications and the setting of abdominal pain , swelling and peripancreatic increased attenuation. 
Findings consistent with acute pancreatitis. 
The patient was admitted initially to the medical service. 
On admission , the patient had a low grade temperature of 100.2 , was tachycardic with a heart rate of 131 , respiratory rate 20 , blood pressure 132/80. 
Her exam was remarkable for decreased breath sounds at the right base and a few scattered rhonchi. 
Cardiac exam was significant for tachycardia. 
There was no murmurs , rubs or gallops appreciated. 
Abdominal exam was significant for decreased bowel sounds. 
She had abdominal tenderness in the midepigastric region with guarding. 
Rectal exam was guaiac negative in the emergency room. 
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 128 , potassium 4.1 , chloride 95 , bicarb 26 , BUN 23 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 433 , WBC 17.8 , hematocrit 33 , platelets 370. 
Liver function tests had an alk level of 434 , T-bili was 0.6 , D-bili was 0.2 , lipase was 123 , amylase was 37. 
The patient had an ultrasound in the Emergency Department which showed no gallstones. 
Gallbladder that was mildly distended. 
A common bile duct that was dilated to 7 mm as well as intrahepatic duct dilatation. 
In addition a 6 cm cyst was identified in the region of the pancreatic head. 
EKG showed her to be in sinus tachycardia with the rate of 122. 
She had a left axis deviation in Qs and V1. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for pancreatitis , asthma , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , history of vascular necrosis of both hips , status post a total hip replacement on the right as well as a total hip replacement on the left. 
She has known coronary artery disease , history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , history of GI bleed. 
Status post a Nissen fundoplication with redo. 
Hypertension. 
Alpha thalassemia. 
History of congestive heart failure. 
Chronic low back pain secondary to spinal stenosis. 
MEDICATIONS: Metformin , Atrovent , Albuterol , Flovent , Elavil , Cisapride , Flexeril , Axid , NPH insulin , Cardizem CD , lisinopril , Lasix , magnesium oxide , Percocet , Premarin , Provera , Prilosec , Lipitor , Tums and multi-vitamins. 
ALLERGIES: Aspirin causes facial swelling , palpitations , reactive airway disease. 
Ibuprofen causing GI bleed. 
meperidine causing itching , prednisone causing myalgias , arthralgias , osteoporosis. 
Penicillin causes edema. 
Fophonomide causes itching. 
Codeine causes itching. 
Morphine causes itching. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She does not drink or use tobacco. 
She has two children. 
She lives alone. 
After admission to the medical service , she was seen by the surgical service in consultation. 
Based on clinical findings and laboratory values , a repeat abdominal CT study was ordered with a plan for CT guided drainage to rule out a pancreatic abscess. 
The CT guided aspirate appeared purulent and was sent for gram and cultures. 
Gram stain was positive for gram negative rods and gram positive cocci in pairs actually growing out Strep viridans and Klebsiella. 
While in the hospital , the patient also developed a urinary tract infection with yeast , and was started on fluconazole. 
This too , she will be discharged with , to complete a seven-day course. 
As well , the patient was felt to have peptic ulcer disease , and was begun on H. pylori therapy of Biaxin and bismuth , both of which she will be discharged on to complete a seven-day course. 
At the time of discharge , the patient is relatively pain-free , tolerating a p.o. diet , and afebrile. 
The plan is to discharge her to the Ron -twin- Hospital for rehabilitation on her usual medications , plus the above-mentioned antibiotics. 
She will follow up in the Uass Goldman Valley Medical Center in the next one to two weeks , and will in addition be followed by her primary care physician , Dr. Pretty Dictated By: REYES D. MCPECK , M.D. UI97 Attending: DENISHA H. MCRORIE , M.D. MK57 QL389/2072 Batch: 4554 Index No. TNKXT38VVT D: 2/19/98 T: 2/19/98