485453494 | PUO | 50295009 | | 8966060 | 11/29/2005 12:00:00 AM | BILATERAL KNEE PAIN | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/10/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 8/5/2005 ATTENDING: INNARELLI , DONNETTE M.D. DIAGNOSIS: Multiple joint sepsis. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Rye is a 73-year-old gentleman who in October of this year developed enterococcus sepsis of both knees , his right shoulder and left wrist. 
He was taken to the operating room in the beginning of July for irrigation and debridement of the aforementioned joints. 
The cultures were significant for enterococcus and he was started on IV antibiotics and discharged to Howood Medical Center . 
At Mi Lakeield Sonme , he continued to complain about bilateral knee swelling as well as shoulder and wrist pain and was therefore brought back for a repeat wash out and reassessment. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: BPH , pacemaker , atrial fibrillation. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Status post bilateral total knee replacement approximately 10 years ago , status post left ankle ORIF. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1. Lopressor 50 mg PO b.i.d. 2. Multivitamin. 
3. Lisinopril 7.5 mg PO daily. 
4. Colace 100 mg PO b.i.d. 5. Digoxin 0.25 mg PO daily. 
6. Nexium 40 mg PO daily. 
7. Unasyn. 
8. Gentamicin IV. 9. Coumadin 7.5 mg PO q.p.m. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Stable vital signs. 
Temperature 97.8. 
Left wrist tender to examination with decreased strength of wrist extension , finger flexion and intrinsics to 3 out of 5. Right shoulder and both knees with only slightly decreased range of motion and little pain on passive range of motion. 
Neurovascularly intact. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was taken to the operating room on 9/3/05 for arthroscopic irrigation and debridement of both knees as well as the right shoulder. 
There was a small effusion in both knees which was aspirated prior to the irrigation and sent to the laboratory. 
These cultures show no growth to date with negative gram stain. 
The right shoulder was ??_____?? without effusion. 
Intraoperative exam: No purulent discharge was encountered , however there was mild inflammatory response in both knees and right shoulder. 
The left wrist was treated with irrigation and debridement as well as a proximal ??_____?? carpectomy by Dr. Kristian Maglione from hand surgery. 
Intraoperative cultures for fluid aspirate as well as bone tissue from the proximal ??_____?? carpectomy demonstrated coag negative staph. 
Postoperatively , the patient was seen by physical therapy for mobilization and weightbearing as tolerated with free range of motion of both knees and the right shoulder. 
He was placed in an Orthomold splint for the left wrist. 
On request of the patient's daughter , Medicine was consulted but had little recommendations beyond small adjustments of his cardiovascular medications. 
Also , Infectious Disease was consulted and recommended a change of antibiotics to ampicillin and gentamicin and vancomycin to treat the coag negative staph in the left wrist aspirate as well as to continue treatment of the previous enterococcus infection. 
No cultures from the current admission have demonstrated enterococcus. 
The patient also underwent a transthoracic echo , however , the report is pending at the time of discharge. 
Finally , the patient was seen by Nutrition who recommended a ??_____?? protein diet with supplements t.i.d. 
Lastly , the patient presents with chronically elevated PTT in a range of 40 to 70. 
After discussion with hematology , an inhibitor screen was sent , however , after the serum was neutralized , PTT was found to be normal so likely the chronic PTT elevation was secondary to a hep block in his PICC line. 
The patient progressed well and was ambulating with minimal support at the time of discharge. 
He has remained afebrile with benign-appearing incisions. 
He will be transferred to Howood Medical Center for further mobilization. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Ampicillin 3000 mg IV q. 4 hours x6 weeks. 
2. Digoxin 0.25 mg PO daily. 
3. Colace 100 mg PO b.i.d. 4. Gentamicin sulfate 400 mg IV daily x6 weeks ( please check gentamicin peak and trough levels ). 5. Lisinopril 10 mg PO daily. 
6. Lopressor 50 mg PO t.i.d. 
Hold for systolic blood pressure less than 110 and heart rate less than 55. 7. Senna tablets 2 tablets PO b.i.d. 8. Multivitamin therapeutic with minerals , 1 tab PO daily. 
9. Vancomycin 1 gram IV q. 12 hours x6 weeks. 
10. 
Coumadin 7.5 mg PO q.p.m. with a target INR of 2 to 3 for atrial fibrillation chronically. 
11. 
Esomeprazole 40 mg PO daily. 
12. Oxycodone 5-10 mg PO q. 4 hours p.r.n. pain. 
PLAN: The patient will be transferred to Howood Medical Center ??_____??. 
He has a right antecubital PICC line in place which will be flushed per protocol. 
He will require intravenous antibiotics for six weeks' time and during this time will require at least weekly lab draws with CBC with diff , BUN and creatinine. 
He will be followed by Dr. Champeau from Infectious Disease at Howood Medical Center . 
He was followed by Dr. Nunziato from Infectious Disease during his hospitalization at Pagham University Of Mr. Rye will require a hearing test while at Howood Medical Center due to his longterm gentamicin treatment. 
He will require rehab services for mobilization , weightbearing as tolerated , with free range of motion and no restrictions for both lower and the right upper extremity. 
He will remain in his Orthoplast splint with b.i.d. dressing changes to the dorsal wrist incision. 
Mr. Rye will follow up with Dr. Donnette Innarelli from Pagham University Of Orthopedics on 7/25 at 9:00 and with the Hand Service at Pagham University Of on 5/9 at 9:15. 
He will also follow up with Dr. Fouty from Pagham University Of Gastroenterology for a colonoscopy on 10/17/05 at 9:00 a.m. , also at Pagham University Of on the No La Ter Ri Ver eScription document: 4-7380246 MCSFocus transcriptionists Dictated By: SCHROM , CHANELLE Attending: INNARELLI , DONNETTE Dictation ID 1706432 D: 9/15/05 T: 9/15/05