283493955 | PUO | 83696554 | | 208654 | 7/14/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/5/1995 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 3/2/1995 PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: PNEUMONIA , LEFT UPPER LOBE. 
OTHER DIAGNOSES: URINARY TRACT INFECTION. 
URINARY INCONTINENCE. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Kraft is a 70-year-old male with hypertension , coronary artery disease , non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , and a 75-pack-year history of tobacco use , who presented on 7/20 at the Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital with a four-day history of subjective fever and nonproductive cough. 
The patient denied shortness of breath , chest pain , orthopnea , or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. 
He reported perfuse sweating , usually associated with fever , but denied history of exposure to tuberculosis or history of tuberculosis. 
The patient denied sick contacts and reported having had an influenza vaccine during this past winter as well as having a Pneumovax in the past. 
The patient also reported feeling fatigued about one week prior to admission and , on the night of admission , felt his legs collapse under him secondary to weakness. 
He denied head trauma. 
He said he fell on his outstretched arm. 
He has no history of seizure disorder and was fully conscious throughout the event. 
He called his daughter who brought him to the Meon Wellfor Pipebocock Medical Center Emergency Room. 
The patient was seen there and evaluated , and he was transferred to the Pagham University Of in the early morning hours of 6/15/95 as he is a Pagham patient. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Angina ( none in the past several months ). 
Coronary artery disease. 
Status post percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in 2/10 at which time a 99% occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending was noted , which was 30% after PTCA. 
Status post PTCA in 1/29 , again with 99% occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending , which was 30% after PTCA. 
Status post PTCA in 2/18 , again with 99% occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending , which was 30% after PTCA; there was a small complication in which a focal dissection of the proximal left anterior descending was noted.. PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Angioplasty as above. 
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Sublingual Nitroglycerin p.r.n. 
Lopressor 50 mg. 
p.o. b.i.d. 
Cardizem-SR 120 mg. b.i.d. 
Coumadin 2.5 mg. alternating with 3 mg. 
p.o. q. day. 
Lovastatin 20 mg. 
q. day. 
Glyburide 5 mg. 
q. day. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
His father had lung cancer. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: He is married and lives with wife and daughter. 
He has a 75-pack-year history of tobacco use. 
He reportedly was smoking until two weeks prior to the onset of illness. 
He denies any use of alcohol. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Vital signs at the Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital Emergency Room revealed temperature 102 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 160/78. 
At the Pagham University Of Emergency Room , temperature was 100.7 , heart rate 96 , O2 saturations 95% on room air , blood pressure 128/80 , respiratory rate 20. 
This was a well-developed , well-nourished , white male who was somnolent but easily arousable. 
He was very diaphoretic in the Emergency Room. 
Neck was supple with full range of motion and no lymphadenopathy. 
The JVP was flat. 
Lungs revealed anterior bronchial breath sounds in the left upper lung field. 
Lungs were clear to auscultation posteriorly. 
Cardiovascular exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm with occasional premature beats. 
An S1 and S2 were heard. 
There were no no murmurs , gallops , or rubs. 
Abdomen was soft and nontender. 
Bowel sounds were present. 
No masses or hepatosplenomegaly was noted. 
On rectal exam , he had heme-negative , brown stool , and he had a normal tone; this was per the Emergency Room staff. 
Extremities revealed no cyanosis , clubbing , or edema. 
Neurologic exam revealed cranial nerves III through XII were intact. 
He was alert and oriented x three. 
Motor and sensory exam revealed 5/5 bilaterally. 
Reflexes were 0 to 1+ bilaterally and symmetrically. 
Toes were downgoing. 
He had normal bulk and tone throughout. 
X-RAY: Chest x-ray showed a left upper lobe infiltrate , and this was per the Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital . 
A repeat chest x-ray here on 5/25/95 again showed extensive left upper lobe pneumonia. 
ELECTROCARDIOGRAM: The electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 89 with occasional premature ventricular contractions. 
He had a Q-wave inversion in lead 3 and AVF , biphasic V3. LABORATORY DATA: Fluid balance panel revealed sodium 131 , potassium 3.4 , BUN and creatinine 23 and 1.4 , chloride and bicarb 98 and 23 , glucose 194. 
His LDH was elevated slightly at 259. 
His other liver function tests were within normal limits. 
His total protein was 5.7 , albumin 3.0. 
His hemoglobin and hematocrit were 14.4 and 43.3 , respectively. 
White blood cell count was 12 , 100 with a differential of 84% polys , 5% bands , 6% lymphs , and 2% monos. 
Platelet count was 188 , 000. 
His urinalysis was significant for white blood cells and red blood cells that were too numerous to count. 
He had 3+ bacteria. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: PROBLEM #1: PNEUMONIA , LEFT UPPER LOBE. 
The patient received 1 g. of Cefuroxime at the Kendsonre Ale Ater Hospital and was transferred to the Pagham University Of where Cefotaxime 1 g. 
eight hours was begun. 
The patient continued to spike temperatures on hospital days #1 and #2 , although blood and urine cultures remained negative. 
On hospital day #3 , Erythromycin was added to his antibiotic regimen as the patient continued to spike temperatures. 
The following day , the patient defervesced and remained afebrile throughout the hospital course. 
As mentioned earlier , a repeat chest x-ray here again showed extensive left upper lobe pneumonia. 
Clinically , the findings from the physical exam showed a resolution of the bronchial breath sounds. 
On the day of discharge , the patient's lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
The patient had been afebrile for four days and had been on Erythromycin orally for two days. 
The intravenous Cefotaxime was also discontinued two days prior to discharge at which point the intravenous Erythromycin was changed to orally at 500 mg. 
q.i.d. 
The patient was instructed that he should avoid the use of tobacco as this would increase his likelihood of redeveloping pneumonia as well as increase his likelihood of worsening cardiac disease. 
A sputum sample was induced , and it was sent for routine culture and AFB culture and smear. 
The cultures were negative , and the AFB smear was negative for mycobacteria. 
The cultures were negative on discharge. 
PROBLEM #2: URINARY TRACT INFECTION. 
The patient was treated with Cefotaxime which was also used for treatment of his pneumonia. 
He was noted to have urinary incontinence , and by report , the incontinence had begun approximately four or five days prior to admission. 
It was felt that the incontinence might be secondary to his ongoing infection. 
A repeat urinalysis was sent approximately four days after admission and showed 1 to 2 white blood cells and 0 bacteria. 
The patient , at that point , no longer was having urinary incontinence; however , he was noted to have a large postvoid residual of 300 cc. 
It was felt that this might be related in part to mild benign prostatic hypertrophy. 
Dr. Cadoff , his primary care physician , is aware and will pursue further work-up as necessary. 
PROBLEM #3: ATAXIA. 
The patient was noted by the family members to be somewhat ataxic at home. 
The onset of this ataxia was in relation to his current illness; however , given the fact that he was on Coumadin , and due to the fact that he had sustained a fall in the evening of admission , a CT scan was performed to rule out a subarachnoid hemorrhage. 
The CT scan was negative for hemorrhage and showed age-appropriate atrophy. 
A Neurology consult was also requested , and recommendations for the CT scan , as already discussed , were made. 
In addition , they recommended that we check an RPR , B12 , folate , and TSH. 
The results are as follows: RPR was nonreactive. 
The first draw of B12 was 233 , which is slightly low normal. 
A repeat B12 was 564 , which is within normal limits. 
His folate was normal at 4.9. 
His TSH was slightly low at 0.44. 
A Physical Therapy consult was also obtained to assist the patient with exercises to improve his strength. 
By discharge , the patient was able to ambulate without difficulty. 
He was having no ataxia , whatsoever. 
We feel , in part , that some of this ataxia may have been related to generalized weakness that was associated with his current illness. 
PROBLEM #4: DIABETES MELLITUS. 
On admission , the patient's glucose was 194. 
Due to his oral intake , we elected to hold his Glyburide and to give him insulin subcu. 
on a sliding scale basis as needed. 
By hospital day #4 , the patient's p.o. intake had improved , and we resumed Glyburide 5 mg. 
p.o. q. day with sliding scale p.r.n. 
We continued Accucheks on a b.i.d. basis. 
His glucose tended to run in the low 200s. 
His glucose will need to be followed as an outpatient , and perhaps one might consider a glucometer for him at home to ensure that he has good glucose control. 
PROBLEM #5: HEMATOLOGIC. 
The patient was admitted on Coumadin , which he takes as follows: 2.5 mg. alternating with 3 mg. 
On admission , his INR was 1.8. 
His INR was rechecked on 6/2/95 and was noted to be 4.8. 
His Coumadin was held for a couple of days , and his INR was rechecked on the day of discharge; it was 2.4 on the day of discharge. 
We feel that the elevation in his INR was probably related to his being on antibiotics. 
I have mentioned this to his primary care doctor , Dr. Sroufe He will follow up on his clinic visit on Monday , 7/22/95. 
LABORATORY PENDING ON DISCHARGE: Legionella antigen , obtained on 10/2/95. 
Repeat stool for Clostridium difficile toxin on 1/5/95 ; however , the patient's diarrhea has diminished , and we do not think that this is related to Clostridium difficile. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Atenolol 50 mg. 
p.o. q. day. 
Cardizem-SR 120 mg. p.o. b.i.d. 
Erythromycin 500 mg. 
p.o. q.i.d. x eight days. 
Glyburide 5 mg. 
p.o. q. day. 
Lovastatin 20 mg. 
p.o. q. day. 
Coumadin 2 mg. 
p.o. q. day. 
Nitroglycerin 0.4 mg. tablets sublingual q. five minutes x three p.r.n. chest pain; the patient is to notify the M.D. if the pain fails to resolve after three tablets or if he should become light-headed while taking those tablets. 
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Good. 
DISPOSITION: The patient is discharged to home. 
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will follow up with Dr. Lindy Cadoff in clinic on Monday , 7/22/95. 
Dictated By: CHIQUITA TARA , M.D. Attending: LINDY S. CADOFF , M.D. KT06 DI977/3692 Batch: 8551 Index No. HNGNRE1W7X D: 5/10/95 T: 11/14/95 CC: 1. LINDY S. CADOFF , M.D. KT06