741475666 | PUO | 07937307 | | 8923663 | 3/10/2005 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/29/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 2/15/2005 ATTENDING: LONGAKER , NATISHA A. MD , PHD ADDENDUM Please note this is an addendum to the previously dictated discharge summary #6296713. 
INTERIM HISTORY: In the interim , since the previously dictated discharge summary , the patient has continued to progress from a cardiac standpoint. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: His hospital course by system from 10/25/05 through the date of discharge is as follows: 1. Ischemia: The patient had continued to remain stable from an ischemia standpoint. 
He continues on aspirin and statin. 
A beta-blocker has been added back to his regimen and was titrated to a dose of Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. 
The patient has not been started on an ACE inhibitor secondary to his elevated creatinine at this time. 
He has had no further episodes of chest pain. 
2. Pump: The patient's congestive heart failure regimen was titrated. 
The patient continues on Isordil 20 mg p.o. t.i.d. and hydralazine 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. for after load reduction. 
He was restarted on a low-dose beta-blocker at 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. as well as digoxin at 0.125 mg p.o. q.o.d. 
The patient was aggressively diuresed with intravenous Lasix and Zaroxolyn followed by conversion to oral diuresis with torsemide at the time of discharge. 
The patient will be followed by Dr. Annabel Verfaille in the Doau Hampcacleve as well as by the CHF Service at Pagham University Of . 
At the time of discharge , the patient was felt to be nearing euvolemia with estimated dry weight of approximately 76 to 77 kg. 3. Rhythm: The patient continued to have atrial flutter with a block. 
His heart rate remained in the rate of 100 to 110 at the time of discharge. 
He had decreased episodes of more rapid dysrhythmia following addition of beta-blocker and digoxin to his medication regimen. 
He also continues on amiodarone at 200 mg p.o. q.d. 
As mentioned , the patient was found to have atrial clot on transesophageal echocardiogram and thus was started on a heparin drip and transitioned on Coumadin. 
However , after a substantial discussion with the Congestive Heart Failure Service and the patient's outpatient CHF Care Team , it was felt that the risks of Coumadin in this patient who has a history of significant noncompliance were greater than the known risk of thromboembolic disease in the setting of his known atrial clot and thus the patient was not continued on Coumadin anticoagulation. 
Rather , he was given aspirin and Plavix at full doses. 
The use of Coumadin in this patient could be re-evaluated as an outpatient based on the patient's follow-up as deemed appropriate by his outpatient providers. 
4. Endocrine: The patient remained on stable diabetes mellitus regimen of Lantus 5 units q.p.m. and standing NovoLog 3 units q.a.c. as well as the NovoLog sliding scale. 
The patient's insulin regimen can be adjusted as an outpatient and possibly oral diabetes medications restarted. 
5. Pulmonary: The patient remained stable from the pulmonary with good oxygen saturations on room air at rest and with ambulation. 
6. Renal: The patient's creatinine on the day prior to discharge was 1.6 improved from the peak of greater than 2. Renal toxic medications were avoided. 
The patient had not been restarted on ACE inhibitor , which could be done as an outpatient as his renal function stabilizes. 
His electrolytes were monitored and repleted aggressively. 
7. Hematology: As mentioned , the decision was made not to anticoagulate the patient with outpatient Coumadin. 
He was started on aspirin and Plavix. 
Of note , the patient also had decreased platelets in the setting of heparin anticoagulation and thus anti-P4 antibody was sent. 
This test is pending at the time of the dictation , but should be followed up by the patient's outpatient providers as it may input further treatment. 
In the meantime , recommend no heparin products. 
As mentioned , the decision was made by the CHF Team who will be following the patient as an outpatient not to continue Coumadin anticoagulation. 
8. Neuro: Of note , on the evening of 5/2/05 , the patient complained of left-sided blurry vision , which was new for the patient. 
He does have chronic right visual changes. 
In light of the patient's known peripheral atherosclerotic disease and atrial clot , the patient was seen by the Stroke Team for a question of acute stroke. 
He had MRI at that time , which did show multiple old infarcts in the right frontal , right occipital , left occipitoparietal , left posterior frontal areas. 
There was , however , no new stroke seen on the MRI. 
The left internal carotid artery was not evaluated , not visualized on the MRI and there was concern for left carotid artery occlusion versus stenosis. 
The patient declined any procedure such as carotid endarterectomy or carotid stenting for his possible carotid stenosis and due to this denial no workup with the CTA was done. 
It was felt that because the patient would decline any intervention the risk of contrast in the setting of his acute renal insufficiency would outweigh the benefits of the study. 
The patient declined any intervention for his carotid arteries on several occasions. 
A carotid noninvasives were ordered and are pending at the time of this dictation to evaluate the severity of disease. 
9. Social: The patient's sister , Genoveva Grieser , is his health care proxy. 
The patient in her presence has declined coronary artery bypass grafting and heart transplant evaluation. 
The patient has also declined further procedure for his probable carotid artery stenosis. 
10. 
Disposition: The patient will be discharged to the Sa Pehall for further rehabilitation. 
He will follow up with Dr. Annabel Verfaille in the Ter E Lo on 8/23/05 at 08:30 a.m. as well as with Dr. Raina Melvin of Pagham University Of Cardiology 10/25/05. 
He also has a follow-up appointment with KTDUOO PCP , Rufus Bernas , on 8/26/05 at 01:50 p.m. 
The patient requires substantial social support at this time , which is being provided by his sister. 
MEDICATIONS AT THE TIME OF DISCHARGE: 1. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. 2. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. 3. Digoxin 0.125 mg p.o. q.o.d. 4. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 5. Folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. 6. Robitussin A-C 5 mL p.o. q.4h. 
p.r.n. cough. 
7. Hydralazine 50 mg p.o. t.i.d. 8. Isordil 20 mg p.o. t.i.d. 9. Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. q.6h. 
10. 
Simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. upset stomach. 
11. 
Multivitamin one tab p.o. q.d. 12. Compazine 5-10 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. nausea. 
13. 
Tessalon 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n. cough. 
14. 
Torsemide 100 mg p.o. q.d. 15. 
Lipitor 80 mg p.o. q.d. 16. 
Plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d. 17. Lantus 5 units subcu q.p.m. 
18. NovoLog 3 units subcu a.c. 
Instructions , give only if food in room and the patient eating , hold if n.p.o. 19. 
NovoLog sliding scale , please do not give any sliding scale coverage at h.s. but do record fingerstick blood glucose at h.s. , hold if n.p.o. eScription document: 7-3369525 CS Dictated By: GERZ , JEANNA Attending: LONGAKER , NATISHA A. Dictation ID 7280623 D: 5/14/05 T: 5/14/05