995906475 | PUO | 07554150 | | 852797 | 4/26/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/11/1995 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 12/10/1995 PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: RECURRENT LEFT LOWER EXTREMITY DEEP VENOUS THROMBOSES ( DVT'S ) SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS: 1 ) OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA 2 ) RESTRICTIVE LUNG DISEASE 3 ) HYPERTENSION HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 50 year old Black female with a significant past medical history for multiple DVT's , who came in here complaining of increased left lower extremity swelling and pain. 
The patient has a long history of left lower extremity DVT's. 
She had her first DVT approximately ten years ago. 
She has had approximately one to two DVTs per year thereafter. 
According to her report , the DVTs have always been in the left lower extremity. 
Also , her record shows that she has only had DVTs in her left lower extremity. 
The longest duration of symptoms from a DVT was approximately for one to two years. 
She has had multiple other episodes of left lower extremity swelling and pain. 
The patient states that she would not always go to the hospital for treatment , but instead would self treat herself by raising her leg when immobile. 
Nonetheless , she has had approximately four DVTs in the past year. 
Her last two admissions for DVTs were as follows: From 3/6 to 5/1/95 she had left popliteal and greater saphenous DVTs by lower extremity non invasive testing. 
She was discharged at that time but did not fill her Coumadin prescription. 
She was then readmitted on 3/23/95 and discharged on 1/1/95 with a left common femoral DVT by lower extremity non invasive testing. 
Since the last admission , the patient adamantly states that she was very compliant to Coumadin therapy. 
She states that she has had increased pain and swelling in the left lower extremity. 
She also states that she has been relatively active at home ( she does gardening , cleans the house , goes for walks ). 
When not active , the patient states that she elevates her legs. 
Despite all of this , the patient has noted gradual increase of left lower extremity swelling and pain which has became intolerable on the day of presentation. 
DVT RISK FACTORS: No trauma to the lower extremities , no prior surgery to the onset of DVT. 
No known hypocoagulable state. 
No oral contraceptives used. 
No hormone replacement therapy. 
No significant immobilization. 
The patient is obese , she has had three miscarriages and she smokes. 
Also of note the patient had a factor V level , which was normal. 
No other studies have been done by patient report or discharge report. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies any fevers , chills , sweats , nausea or vomiting , diarrhea , bright red blood per rectum , melena , chest pain , pleuritic chest pain , chest pressure , cough , or dysuria. 
However , the patient has had a significant toothaches bilaterally for the past two weeks. 
Also , of particular note , the patient gives a history of sudden onset of shortness of breath , lasting for approximately 30 minutes or so , almost every evening. 
She states that the shortness of breath is relieved with oxygen therapy , as she has at home. 
She never has pleuritic chest pain or cough with these episodes. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) Recurrent DVTs x 10 years; 2 ) obesity and obstructive sleep apnea; 3 ) restrictive lung disease; 4 ) hypertension; 5 ) atypical chest pain; 6 ) GERD; 7 ) depression; 8 ) status post herniorrhaphy in September of 1994. 
PFTs from September of 1994 show an FVC of 1.85 , which is 56% predicted. 
FEV-1 of 1.61 , which is 59% predicted. 
MVC/FEV-1 ratio of 107% predicted. 
DLCO corrected 61%. 
TLC of 3.32 , which is 64% predicted. 
ECHO results from 1994 show an ejection fraction of 55% , with a normal right ventricular function and size. 
The patient is on home 02 , approximately two to three liters by nasal cannula. 
Her baseline dyspnea on exertion is approximately five steps or approximately 1/4 block , but always without chest pain or substernal chest pressure. 
PAST OBSTETRICAL HISTORY: She is G VIII , P V with three mis- carriages in the first trimester. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: 1 ) Coumadin , 7.5 mg q day; 2 ) Zoloft , 60 mg q day; 3 ) Lasix , 20 mg q day; 4 ) Axid , 150 mg b.i.d. 
TOBACCO: 30 years x one half pack per day; currently smoking. 
ALCOHOL: No alcohol use. 
IVDU: Cocaine , no use. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
Her mother had cancer and died at a young age but she did not know her mother. 
Her grandmother had skin cancer. 
There is no diabetes mellitus; coronary artery disease , bleeding or clotting problems or lung problems in her family. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is from Po S Ma and was raised by her grandmother. 
She has four living children and one child who recently passed away. 
She has been depressed after the death of her last child. 
She is now living with her son in Lare Modehunt Leigh PHYSICAL EXAM: The patient is a very obese , black female in no apparent distress. 
She was not tachypneic. 
Temperature 97.3 , blood pressure 112/74 , pulse 64 , respiratory rate 16. 
Oxygen saturation of 88% on room air , which increased to 93% on two liters nasal cannula. 
Skin was warm and dry. 
There were no rashes , bruising or petechiae noted. 
HEENT - pupils equally round and reactive to light and accommodation. 
EOMI. 
Sclera anicteric. 
Neck supple with a full range of motion , no lymphadenopathy , no JVD; oropharynx moist and pink. 
Tongue midline with a mottled pigmentation. 
Tonsils bilaterally enlarged with a small airway noted. 
The left upper two molars were tender to minimal palpation. 
The right upper molar was also tender. 
Lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally but decreased breath sounds in the bases. 
Heart - regular rate and rhythm without any murmurs , rubs or gallops. 
Abdomen soft , non tender , obese , positive bowel sounds , negative organomegaly; vertical midline scar , no CVAT. 
Rectal examination was hemenegative. 
Extremities - there was significant left lower extremity swelling noted up to the thigh with positive pitting edema to the calf. 
There was also tenderness on the left inner thigh anteriorly. 
There was also marked tenderness on the left calf. 
There was no erythema. 
The left calf measured 41.5 cm. 
There was an impressive homan's sign. 
The right lower extremity had minimal swelling noted without tenderness , erythema or warmth. 
The right calf measured 36.0 cm. 
Neuro exam non focal. 
LABORATORY DATA: Notable for a Bicarbonate of 34 , hematocrit of 48.2 , and RDW of 17.4 and MCV of 75.4; white blood cell count of 4.9 with a normal differential. 
Her PTT was 21.6 , INR of 3.2 , PTT of 45.0. 
Chest x-ray showed no pulmonary edema or pneumonia. 
There was bibasilar atelectasis , which was not changed from prior x-ray. 
LIMA showed left common femoral vein DVT , left popliteal vein DVT and distal left saphenous vein DVT. 
VQ scan was read as low probability , which was comparable to her previous VQ scan in September of 1995 , which was low probability. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was evaluated for recurrent DVT and possible pulmonary embolus and treated with intravenous heparin. 
We had a low clinical suspicion for pulmonary embolus and the VQ scan was also low probability. 
The patient was seen by the cardiology service to evaluate if the patient was a candidate for IVC filter placement. 
Cardiology felt that the patient was not at risk for pulmonary embolus and that her recurrent DVTs were of a more result of non compliance and/or never completing a full course of anticoagulation therapy. 
Thus , the plan was to continue to anticoagulate the patient and follow her as an outpatient. 
However , the patient continued to have tooth pain and was seen by the dental service. 
On 1/17/95 , she had two molars extracted , one on each side of the upper dentition. 
Her dental surgery was uncomplicated. 
After surgery , she was continued on Heparin and anticoagulated with Coumadin. 
The patient continued to do well. 
However , the patient's hospital course was notable for multiple episodes of sudden shortness of breath , usually occurring during the evening. 
The shortness of breath would come on suddenly , sometimes when she was asleep and sometimes when she was awake. 
The shortness of breath would last for approximately 30 minutes or so and would be relieved with oxygen therapy by nasal cannula. 
The patient states that this history of sudden shortness of breath is usual for her and has occurred for several months. 
There were no associated symptoms of fevers , chills , sweats , pleuritic chest pain , chest pressure , palpitations or cough. 
We did not suspect that she was having multiple PE's. 
The patient was sent home with an INR of 3.2. 
In any case , the patient was slow to respond while in house to anticoagulation with Warfarin. 
She required approximately six days of Warfarin at the following doses - 12.5 , 9/14 7.5 and 10 mg of Coumadin before obtaining an INR greater than 3. DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1 ) Lasix , 20 mg q day; 2 ) Nifedipine XL , 30 mg q day; 3 ) Zoloft , 50 mg q d; 4 ) Axid , 150 mg b.i.d.; 5 ) Coumadin , 7.5 mg alternating with 10 mg P O q day. 
FOLLOW UP: The patient is scheduled to have a follow up appointment with Dr. Stasko on 7/25/95 at 9:40 AM. 
She is to have VNA service to her home to check her INR level tomorrow. 
Her PT/PTT results will be reported to Caroyln Reidherd , a nurse practitioner at the Gle Ra Csylv Valley Medical Center KTDUOO Clinic. 
Dictated By: DESIRAE MARCOTT , XK7 Attending: CHARLEEN A. IVEL , PH.D IX65 QD758/6796 Batch: 09226 Index No. MRROAO4BVO D: 9/27/95 T: 2/13/95