855931883 | PUO | 06334183 | | 517218 | 1/24/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/18/1992 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/24/1992 HISTORY: The patient is a 79-year-old black female with a history of diabetes , hypertension and peripheral vascular disease who presented to the Totin Hospital And Clinic emergency room brought in by the EMTs for unresponsiveness at home. 
Cardiac risk factors were positive for diabetes , hypertension , questionable family history and question of a prior MA. 
She was relatively well with diabetes and hypertension at her baseline until approximately 8 of September when she had a left common femoral angioplasty at Pagham University Of . 
In 27 of May , she had a left fem/pop for vascular insufficiency , and her hospitalization at that time was complicated by some mental status changes and a fever of unknown etiology. 
In 7 of March , she presented to KTDUOO with an upper respiratory infec- tion and received pneumovax. 
In 28 of February , she was recurrently seen in KTDUOO for coughs and colds. 
In 25 of October , she had a Totin Hospital And Clinic admission for three days of cough , purulent sputum and shortness of breath. 
On admission , she was on her insulin and inhalers. 
She was treated with intravenous Cefotetan and IV steroids for reactive airways disease. 
The patient improved slowly and steadily on a taper. 
On 5 of May , the patient was complaining of increasing lethargy , a sick feeling , was cold and clammy and called her medical doctor. 
Approximately 15 minutes later , the patient was noted by her family to be unresponsive and EMTs were called. 
The patient was found to be hypotensive , diahporetic and nonverbal with a heart rate in the 20s and EKG that was consistent with complete heart block. 
She was intubated , treated with Atropine in the field and brought to the Totin Hospital And Clinic emergency room. 
In the emergency room , her heart rate was noted to be 20. 
She appeared to be in sinus arrest with a ventricular escaped rhythm. 
An external pacer was placed. 
She was paced at 80 , had an increase in her blood pressure , was given calcium and resuscitated with fluids. 
A transvenous pacemaker was placed and captured effectively. 
LABORATORY DATA: ing intubated. 
Her bicarb was eight on admission. 
BUN and creatinine were 48 and 2.3. 
Initial CK was 28. 
She was given oriing intubated. 
Her bicarb was eight on admission. 
BUN and creatinine were 48 and 2.3. 
Initial CK was 28. 
She was given oriing intubated. 
Her bicarb was eight on admission. 
BUN and creatinine were 48 and 2.3. 
Initial CK was 28. 
She was given oriing intubated. 
Her bicarb was eight on admission. 
BUN and creatinine were 48 and 2.3. 
Initial CK was 28. 
She was given originally , in the emergency room , IV insulin as well and treated with antibiotics including Ceftriaxone , Vancomycin and Gentamicin and transferred to the cardiac care unit because there were no NICU beds available. 
Allergies: No known allergies. 
She does not smoke or drink. 
She is currently living with her daughter , one of 11 children. 
She has 66 grand- children and 30 great grandchildren. 
Medications on admission included Verapamil 40 q. 
day; insulin 30 units NPH a day; Captopril 25 t.i.d.; Bactrim DS one tablet p.o. b.i.d.; and Ventolin and Atrovent inhalers. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Notable for hypertension , diabetes , multiple rotator cuff injuries in the past , the femoral and popliteal bypass procedure as noted above and noted to have an increased globulin in the past. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: In the unit , she had IV insulin started for presumed diabetic ketoacidosis. 
The sinus arrest was presumed to be metabolic in origin due to her severe acidosis hyperkalemia secondary to her diabetic ketoaci- dosis. 
In addition , she had been on high dose Verapamil with some question of whether or not this was suppressing her sinus node. 
She was maintained on IV insulin for approximately two days but had a persistent metabolic acidosis. 
Because of some abdominal tenderness which was hard to gauge given her decreased mental status while she was intubated , she underwent an abdominal CT that was unremarkable , although very mild pancreatitis was noted. 
She had a concomitant rise in her amylase and lipase to approxi- mately 270 and 1 , 290 respectively. 
Her LFTs showed a picture consistent with shock liver with her transaminases going up to approximately 1 , 000-2 , 000 range and the LDH in the 2 , 000-3 , 000 range. 
It resolved over time as her blood pressure returned to normal. 
Her antibiotics were changed to Ampicillin , Gentamicin and Flagyl for concern of an abdominal source despite the negative CT , and her low grade fevers per- sisted for a few days but then she defervesced. 
On 3 of November , she was transferred to the floor after having received approximately five days of intravenous insulin and a resolution of her hyperglycemia and ketosis. 
Her hospital course on the floor was notable for a titration of her insulin dose. 
Of note , her insulin dose was as high as approximately 30-35 units of NPH q. day in a setting of having received steroids initially on admission and they were continued. 
Her steroids were weaned rapidly and , once steroids were stopped her insulin requirement decreased markedly and she was only on 20 units of NPH a day now. 
Of note , she had two episodes of hypoglycemia in the morning with blood sugars in the 20-30 range , one of which was asymptomatic but one of which was associated with some shaking that responded promptly to administration of juice. 
From an infectious disease standpoint , she had no obvious source for any of her fevers , and she defervesced. 
There was some ques- tion of aspiration surrounding her original intubation , so she was maintained on approximately seven days of antibiotics and then these were stopped. 
She was watched , and she remained afebrile throughout her hospitalization. 
One day prior to discharge , she complained of some left gum pain. 
Exam showed a very mild swelling and some focal tenderness but was unremarkable. 
Because of this , she was started on Peni- cillin 250 mg p.o. q.i.d. which will be continued for seven days. 
From a renal standpoint , her baseline creatinine was 1.3 to 1.5 range and it bumped to approximately 3.0 during hospitalization. 
She was being discharged with her creatinine of approximately 1.7. 
Her urine output had been excellent. 
From a cardiovascular standpoint , within three or four days of her admission , her sinus arrest resolved in a setting of correc- tion of her metabolic derangement. 
Her pacemaker was removed , and she had no further cardiac event. 
She was being discharged today in stable condition to the Damri Kinli Nonell Hospital with the following discharge medications: Nifedipine 30 mg p.o. q.i.d.; Lasix 20 mg p.o. q. day; Pepcid 20 mg p.o. q. day; Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Clonidine 0.1 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Ecotrin 325 mg p.o. q. day; Albuterol 0.5 cc and 2.5 cc normal saline q. three to four hours p.r.n.; insulin NPH 20 units subcutaneous q.a.m.; Penicillin B 250 mg p.o. q.i.d. times one week; Peridex swish and swallow q.i.d.; and 5 , 000 units of subcutaneous heparin b.i.d. as long as she remains somewhat inactive. 
She takes an 1 , 800 kilocalorie ADA diet and low-salt and low-cholesterol diet as well. 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: 1. Diabetic ketoacidosis. 
2. Sinus arrest. 
3. Diabetes mellitus. 
4. Hypertension. 
Dictated By: LEOLA CLARISA MUSICH , M.D. NB09 AH342/5017 PEGGY KELLEY ROMIG , M.D. AB14 D: 2/23/92 T: 2/23/92 Batch: C971 Report: UK417C617 T: