473845822 | PUO | 05055944 | | 0871903 | 10/5/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/5/2005 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: ATTENDING: HAMBLET , BRITTANEY M.D. ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Septic shock from right prosthetic knee , infection with MRSA. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Halston is an 83-year-old gentleman with a history of coronary artery disease , congestive heat failure , diabetes , and chronic renal insufficiency , status post bilateral knee replacement 10 years prior who presented to an outside hospital on the February , 2005 , with one day of mild confusion , fever , and lethargy. 
He was initially thought to have left lower lobe pneumonia , but subsequently left knee effusion was noted and an arthrocentesis was performed with consistent with septic arthritis. 
He was admitted to the hospital for broad-spectrum antibiotics ( cefepime and vancomycin ) and subsequently developed hypotension requiring vasopressor support with dopamine as well as an increased oxygen requirement. 
His sepsis was also marked by acute renal failure , mental status changes , and a non-ST elevation MI. He was transferred to Pagham University Of per family request. 
At the time of admission , the patient was lethargic but interactive , orient to person and place and complained of fatigue , but denied any pain or chest pain or shortness of breath. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Obtained from family , disclosed one week of left leg and hip pain , low grade fevers , lethargy , and increased high-grade fevers starting the day prior to admission. 
The patient had no recent travels , sick contacts , trauma , or exposures. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypertension , coronary artery disease , diabetes complicated by neuropathy , retinopathy , and nephropathy , congestive heart failure , hyperlipidemia , chronic renal insufficiency , status post distant left nephrectomy for unclear reasons , neuroendocrine tumor , status post chemotherapy and reception , and esophageal reason felt to be cured , status post bilateral total knee replacement , status post right total hip replacement , DVT , PE , status post IVC filter , and chronic lower extremity lymphedema. 
MEDICATIONS AT TRANSFER: Vancomycin , cefepime , atenolol , and lisinopril. 
MEDICATIONS AT HOME: Atenolol 50 p.o. q.d. , Lipitor , lisinopril 10 mg p.o. q.d. , and Lasix 40 mg p.o. q.d. 
ALLERGIES: NKDA. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with his wife and denies any tobacco , alcohol , or drug use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Temperature 97.8 , heart rate 80 , blood pressure 91/52 , respirations 18 , and satting 95% on 6 liters of nasal cannula. 
The patient was noted to be lethargic but otherwise had no acute distress. 
He was oriented to person and place. 
Lungs examination revealed a few basilar crackles , but otherwise was clear. 
Cardiac examination had a regular rate and rhythm with 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at left sternal border nonradiating. 
Abdomen was unremarkable. 
His right knee had a large effusion with erythema , tenderness to palpation , and limited range of motion. 
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: Notable for a sodium of 132; a potassium of 5.1; and a creatinine of 4.0 , up from a baseline of 1.5. 
White count was 11 , hematocrit was 37.6 , and platelets were 217. 
Lactic acid was 0.8. 
Troponin was 0.71. 
LFTs were within normal limits. 
DIAGNOSTIC DATA: Chest x-ray revealed poor inspiratory effort and question of left lingular infiltrate , mild pulmonary edema , and a calcified left anterior descending artery. 
EKG showed normal sinus rhythm with incomplete right-bundle branch block , 2 to 3 mm SCD depression in the V3 through V5. Micro from January , 2005 , Staphylococcus aureus with sensitivities pending. 
Blood cultures form January , 2005 , Gram-positive cocci , speciation and sensitivities pending. 
IMPRESSION: This is an 82-year-old gentleman with septic shock likely secondary to infection of his right prosthetic knee complicated by bacteremia , acute renal failure , myocardial injury , and mental status changes. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: 1. Infectious Disease. 
The patient was found to have MRSA , septic arthritis complicated by septic shock , bacteremia and acute renal failure. 
He was brought to the operating room with removal of his prosthetic knee and debridement of his surrounding area with drain replacement. 
He was started on a 42-day course of vancomycin 1 g q.12h. 
and is currently on day #18 as of February , 2005. 
He was also noted to have pneumonia on the left side that bronchoscopy was also thought to be MRSA pneumonia. 
Per ID consult , he was started the linezolid for better lung penetration and is currently on day #8 of 14. 
He has been afebrile now with negative cultures since then. 
Of note , on bronchoscopy , there was cytopathic changes consistent with HSV infection , and he was treated with a course of acyclovir also per infectious disease this is probably unnecessary and presented contamination from an old lesion. 
2. Pulmonary. 
The patient had a nosocomial pneumonia with MRSA and was intubated for inability to handle secretions and mental status changes. 
He had a tracheostomy placed and has been tolerating that breathing on trach collar during the day and resting on pressure support of 5 and 5 overnight. 
BBG are followed with a PC02 goal of less than 55 and a pH of greater than 7.30 when these were correlated to his arterial blood gas. 
3. Cardiovascular. 
The patient was noted to be in distributive shock on Neo-Synephrine with a troponin leak secondary to demand physiology. 
He had an echo performed , which demonstrated diastolic dysfunction and preserved ejection fraction. 
He also had an episode of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response in the setting of an acute septic shock. 
He is currently in normal sinus rhythm with cardiac enzymes having resolved. 
He has been maintained on aspirin , Lipitor , and Lopressor for blood pressure and rate control. 
4. Renal. 
The patient was noted to be in acute renal failure , which is now resolved and with a creatinine at back to baseline of 1.2 to 1.5. 5. Hematology. 
The patient has anemia of chronic disease with crit at baseline of 30. 
He should be transfused for transfusion goal of 26 , although there has been no evidence of acute blood loss during his hospital course other than perioperative excepted acute drop in crit which is now resolved. 
6. Endocrine. 
The patient was on 50 units of Lantus as an outpatient but did have episodes of hypoglycemia in the setting of sepsis and poor nutritional status. 
He is currently on Lantus 20 units , which can be slowly increased if his blood sugars are running high. 
Additional glucose management can be maintained with sliding scale insulin. 
7. Pain/Psych. 
The patient had peristent delirium likely the combination of infection pain , ICU delirium , and treatment with Versed and fentanyl. 
He had a head CT , which was negative for any acute process , and once his intravenous narcotic and benzodiazepine were stopped , his delirium rapidly cleared over 24 to 48 hours. 
The patient is now on a fentanyl patch for pain control , which can be increased as his sensorium clears and Haldol was effective for agitation as well. 
8. Gastrointestinal/FEN. The patient had PEG placement to supplement nutrition and has been tolerating tube feeds without difficulty. 
9. Prophylaxis. 
The patient was maintained on Nexium and subcutaneous Lovenox. 
10. Code Status. 
The patient is full code. 
eScription document: 4-2963461 SSSten Tel Dictated By: BOWARD , SHAINA MURIEL Attending: HAMBLET , BRITTANEY Dictation ID 0494443 D: 11/10/05 T: 11/10/05