748699567 | PUO | 83028988 | | 7056381 | 4/18/2006 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 4/18/2006 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/28/2007 ATTENDING: CASSEM , JERAMY MD ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: The patient is admitted for a right gluteal hematoma. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 62-year-old man with coronary artery disease status post recent bare metal stenting in August , hypercholesterolemia , CLL and peripheral arterial disease and admitted for increasing right thigh pain and falling hematocrit at rehabilitation. 
The patient had a complicated hospitalization in August where he presented with a severe right MRSA infection of his right lower extremity. 
During hospitalization , he required a revascularization prior to undergoing surgery and had a bare metal stent placed to his left anterior descending artery. 
After his stenting , he underwent a left BKA to eradicate his left lower extremity infection and was later noted to have a right upper extremity clot associated with central venous catheter. 
The patient was discharged from the hospital in August on Lovenox 80 mg twice daily and on Coumadin with the plan that his Lovenox be stopped at the time of his Coumadin reaching a therapeutic level. 
He was also discharged on aspirin and Plavix for his bare metal stent. 
On the day prior to admission , the patient was noted to have a hematocrit of 24 at rehab and on the day of admission the Hct rechecked and was found to be 18. 
For this , he was transferred to the Pagham University Of for further workup. 
The patient denies any blood in the stool , melena , dizziness or lightheadedness. 
He does note some pain on his right side , particularly his right upper thigh and gluteal area. 
He denies any recent trauma. 
He felt some weakness in his right leg but has had no paresthesias or pain. 
He states that his leg has been at all times warm. 
ED COURSE: The patient was noted to be guaiac negative and complained of some mild abdominal fullness. 
He received an abdominal CT , which showed a very large right gluteal hematoma with a fresh fluid levels suggesting acute bleed. 
The patient was given packed red blood cells and was noted to have a potassium level of 5.8 for which he received Kayexalate. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Type II diabetes , hypertension , coronary artery disease status post MI in 1997. 
He had a nonST elevation MI in 3/29 for which he underwent catheterization. 
Catheterization at that time showed an 80% left anterior descending lesion , which was stented to 0 with a bare metal stent , 80% diagonal and first diagonal lesion and a 100% circumflex lesion. 
The patient has known significant peripheral vascular disease status post left TMA in 4/3 with fem-pop in 4/3 , left foot debridement in 5/26 and finally a left BKA in 6/26 He has congestive heart failure with last ejection fraction of 32% , hyperlipidemia , gout , CLL status post fludarabine x4 cycles in 2004 in which has been stable with no evidence of residual or retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy , BPH , chronic kidney disease with a baseline creatinine of 2.5 , and glaucoma. 
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: Include aspirin 325 mg , Niferex 150 mg daily , Lasix 80 mg b.i.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , Lovenox 80 mg b.i.d. , Plavix 75 mg daily , diltiazem 60 mg t.i.d. , hydralazine 20 mg t.i.d. , Lantus 42 units at night , NovoLog 10 units with meals , Lopressor 75 mg q.6h. 
, Zocor 40 mg at night , Flomax 0.4 mg daily , Coumadin 10 mg daily , multivitamin , vitamin C , zinc 220 mg daily , Neurontin 100 mg b.i.d. , Xalatan one drop in the left eye every evening. 
ALLERGIES: His allergies include codeine. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: The patient was in no acute distress. 
Normocephalic , atraumatic. 
His eyes were anicteric. 
His extraocular membranes were intact. 
Mucous membranes were moist without exudates. 
His neck was supple , with full range of motion. 
He had 2+ carotid pulses on both sides without any evidence of bruits. 
His jugular venous pressure was approximately 8 cm of water at 30 degrees of elevation. 
His lungs were notable for bibasilar crackles with left side greater than right. 
Cardiovascular exam: He had regular sinus rhythm with normal S1 and S2 , and he had a I/VI systolic ejection murmur at his base. 
This seemed to radiate to his axilla. 
His abdomen was soft , nontender , and nondistended. 
He had normal bowel sounds in all four quadrants , no hepatosplenomegaly or masses. 
His extremities are notable for a right-sided gluteal hematoma with fullness and thickening. 
He does have 1+ palpable DP pulse on that side confirmed with Doppler. 
Skin was without rash , ecchymosis , or petechiae. 
His neurological exam was intact. 
He was alert and oriented x3. 
Cranial nerves II through XII were grossly intact. 
He had intact motor and sensation in his right lower extremity along with , however , was noted to have a baseline neuropathy with sensory loss up to his admission. 
Admission EKG is normal for normal sinus rhythm , normal axis , old T-wave inversions in I and aVL and an isolated ST elevation in lead 2. Notable studies during this admission included CT of the abdomen on admission which showed a new right gluteal hematoma with fluid levels suggesting acute bleed. 
ADMISSION LABS: Potassium 5.8 , creatinine 2.1 , hematocrit of 22.3. 
He had an MRI of his brain done on 5/29/06 which showed subacute infarction on the right anterior internal capsule and chronic occlusion of the left internal carotid and old left parietal stroke. 
He had an echocardiogram done on 10/1/06 with an ejection fraction of 30-35% , trace aortic insufficiency , trace mitral regurgitation , trace tricuspid regurgitation and PA systolic pressures of 33+ right atrial pressure. 
IMPRESSION: This is a 62-year-old man admitted for a falling hematocrit with an evolving right gluteal hematoma secondary to supratherapeutic anticoagulation. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM IS AS FOLLOWS: 1. 
Right gluteal hematoma. 
The patient was admitted for low hematocrit in the setting of being on multiple anticoagulant and antiplatelet drugs. 
He was found to have right gluteal hematoma which was responsible for his acute hematocrit drop. 
His Coumadin , Lovenox , aspirin , and Plavix were initially held. 
He received vitamin K and three units of FFP to reverse his coagulopathy. 
He was also transfused a total of 6 units of PRBCs for a goal hematocrit of 30 given his cardiac and neurologic disease as described below. 
There was no evidence of further hematocrit drop. 
Given that he had been anticoagulated due to right upper extremity DVT and that the indication for anticoagulation in the setting and catheter associated clot is somewhat murky , it was felt that the patient would not benefit from addition of anticoagulation and therefore his Lovenox and Coumadin were discontinued. 
He was restarted on his aspirin and and his Plavix and his Hct remained stable. 
2. Non-ST-elevation MI. 
The patient was admitted in August and was known to have three-vessel coronary disease and had underwent stenting of his LAD with a bare metal stent on 6/28/06. 
After discussion with the cardiologist , he was stopped on aspirin and Plavix given the evolution of hematoma and his acute hematocrit drop. 
During his lowest hematocrit period , the patient was noted to have lateral ST depressions and this corresponded to a troponin leak with a peak troponin of 2.46. 
The etiology of this was felt to be demand related to his profound anemia and on correction of his anemia , the patient's ST depressions resolved fully and his troponins trended downward. 
The patient was known to have a presumed ischemic cardiomyopathy following his nonST elevation MI. He was found to have an ejection fraction of 30-35%. 
He will need to have a repeat echocardiogram done in one month's time to assess whether or not he would benefit from an implantable cardiac defibrillator. 
The patient's blood pressure medications were adjusted as follows. 
His blood pressure medications were initially held due to his stroke-like symptoms at the time of admission when his low hematocrit. 
As detailed below , however , they were slowly added back. 
He tolerated slow titration of beta-blocker to goal heart rate and also addition of an ACE inhibitor which was felt to be important given his extensive peripheral vascular disease and his low ejection fraction. 
3. Recrudescence of stroke-like symptoms in the setting of the patient's acute hematocrit drop. 
The patient was noted to have worsening slurred speech and a right facial droop. 
He does carry a history of left internal carotid occlusion and left-sided stroke in the past. 
The Neurology team was consulted for these acute deficits and requested an MRI. 
The MRI showed basically old known strokes and a subacute right internal capsule stroke that was felt to be unrelated to his current symptomatology. 
He initially had his antihypertensives to allow for maximal perfusion pressure. 
However , as his coagulopathy resolved , it was felt that the stress that resulted in the recrudescence of his old stroke-like symptoms was resolved and he was able tolerate , further addition of his antihypertensives without further incident. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was seen by physical therapy and given his recent below the knee amputation , it was felt to be best served by going back to rehab. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: His discharged medications are as follows: 1. Tylenol 650 mg q.4h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
2. Aspirin 325 mg daily. 
3. Colace 100 mg twice daily. 
4. Lovenox 40 mg subcutaneously daily. 
5. Nexium 40 mg daily. 
6. Lasix 80 mg in the morning and 40 mg at night which his IO goals should be about -500 cc of fluid per day. 
7. Neurontin 100 mg b.i.d. 8. Aspart 10 units subcutaneous with meals. 
9. Aspart sliding scale. 
9. Glargine 42 units daily. 
10. 
Xalatan one drop. 
11. 
Lisinopril 15 mg daily. 
12. Toprol-XL 200 mg daily. 
13. 
Niferex 150 mg daily. 
14. 
Zocor 40 mg at night. 
15. 
Flomax 0.4 mg daily. 
16. 
Multivitamin one tablet daily. 
17. Zinc 220 mg daily. 
18. Plavix 75 mg po daily FOLLOW-UP PLAN: The patient is to call his primary care physician , Dr. Normand Bennes and his cardiologist , Dr. Coddington , following discharge from rehabilitation. 
At that time , he should have repeat echocardiogram to assess his candidacy for an implantable cardiac defibrillator. 
eScription document: 9-0339202 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: OLDOW , TOMAS Attending: CASSEM , JERAMY Dictation ID 4883000 D: 4/30/06 T: 4/30/06