237778376 | PUO | 81640922 | | 2769086 | 6/9/2004 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/9/2004 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: ATTENDING: DENISHA MCRORIE MD , PHD The patient is an LMC patient. 
Her primary cardiologist is Dr. Kittell HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Bellucci is a 50-year-old woman with coronary artery disease and extensive vascular disease who presented to the ED with worsening chest pain at rest and at baseline has exertional chest pain. 
She had been experiencing increasing chest pain of late and was referred to CT surgery for surgical evaluation to correct her CAD and ischemia. 
She had been at an office visit on the date of admission with Dr. Colasamte and began to experience terrible chest pain and Dr. Suyama referred her to the Pagham University Of ED for an urgent evaluation. 
In the ED , she was noted to be afebrile with a temperature of 98 , blood pressure 91/54 , respirations 16 , and satting 98% on 2 liters. 
She was noted on EKG to be in normal sinus rhythm with 2-mm ST depressions in II , III , and aVF V4 through V6. 
She was given aspirin , morphine , metoprolol , Mucomyst , Ativan , nitroglycerin and was made pain-free and was sent to the cath lab for the concern that her stent to the diagonal #1 placed 6/21/04 was no longer patent , as a cause for her unstable angina. 
She had been recently told that no further intervention was possible after her stent to the diagonal #1. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for coronary artery disease status post CABG in 1996 , which involved LIMA to LAD ( free ) and SVG to OM1. Peripheral vascular disease. 
Status post FEM-POP and fem-fem bypass in 2003. 
End-stage renal disease status post cadaveric renal transplant in 1987 , currently immunosuppressed. 
IDDM , hyperlipidemia , hypertension , retinopathy , TIA , lower GI bleed , chronic diarrhea , CMV colitis , anemia , and bladder CA , recent diagnosis not yet worked up. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Aspirin 81 mg , azathioprine 50 mg a day , calcium carbonate 650 mg b.i.d. , Colace 150 mg b.i.d. , lispro sliding scale , Lantus , multivitamin , folate , Lopressor 25 mg t.i.d. , prednisone 5 mg a day , Zocor 80 mg q.h.s. , Plavix 75 mg q. day as well as Zetia 10 mg a day. 
ALLERGIES: Sulfa , Benadryl , penicillin , and Compazine. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives with her husband and has two children. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: On admission , Ms. Bellucci was taken to the cardiac catheterization suite where it was found that her circumflex was 60% , which had been 60% stenosis , now 100% stenosed. 
Her diagonal #1 status post stent was now 100% stenosed and all other native disease and graft disease was unchanged. 
Her right heart cath revealed elevated filling pressures and PTCA and stent was carried out of the occluded diagonal #1 stent as well as the LAD , but she became hypotensive , bradycardic , and developed cardiogenic shock requiring CPR and intubation. 
She had an IBP placed and subsequently an echo was done to rule out effusion and was negative , but had an apparently low EF. 
She had suspected transient decrease in flow to her septal arteries and this likely compounded her acute myocardial infarction. 
Following insertion of the intraaortic balloon pump , it was noted that she had absent pulses in her right foot , which was noted also to be cool to touch. 
She was transferred to the CCU , intubated and sedated , unresponsive. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Her JVP was elevated. 
Her lungs had coarse breath sounds anterolaterally , but without crackles or wheezes. 
Her heart was regular , tachycardic with a gallop and a 3/6 harsh systolic murmur at the base of her heart and a 2/6 holosystolic murmur radiating to the axilla. 
She had somewhat decreased bowel sounds , but her belly was soft and nondistended. 
Her bilateral lower extremities were cool with absent pulses in her feet to palpation and her right foot was mottled and was notably cooler without edema. 
LABORATORY DATA: Her CK was over 100 , MB 7 , troponin 0.92 , INR 0.9 , and platelets 191 , 000. 
She later developed acute renal failure and dialysis was initiated on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday schedule. 
Her echo showed an EF of 30% with severe MR as well as inferoseptal and inferior akinesis. 
The balloon pump was eventually taken out , the dopamine drip was discontinued. 
She was stabilized and extubated. 
She was stable for several days , but on 9/1/04 in the evening experienced an episode of unstable VT arrest requiring shock x 1. no further defibrillation was needed. 
She stabilized after her V-TACH arrest and shocking and per Electrophysiology Service , she was loaded with amiodarone and has been continued on 200 mg p.o. q.6h. 
after being titrated off her amiodarone drip. 
BY SYSTEMS: 1. Cardiovascular: a. Ischemia: Ms. Bellucci has terrible coronary artery disease and no further intervention can be offered to her after discussion with both Dr. Colasamte 's Surgical team and the EP Service. 
She should not undergo any further catheterizations or revascularization. 
She is currently on Aspirin , Plavix , Lopressor , and Zocor. 
She was briefly on Lipitor , but this was discontinued after a bump in her LFTs. 
She is not on an ACE or an ARB secondary to her acute renal failure and at the time of this dictation her renal function remains poor and there are no plans to restart an ACE inhibitor or ARB. b. Pump: Ms. Bellucci has ischemic cardiomyopathy with severe MR and she is undergoing ultrafiltration and regularly is getting several liters per hemodialysis session as her blood pressure tolerates. 
c. Rhythm: Ms. Bellucci had an episode of ischemic and unstable ventricular tachycardia requiring shocking. 
Electrophysiology evaluated her for the possibility of an AICD placement , but this has been deferred for now and it is unlikely that she will ever have an AICD placed , certainly not on this hospitalization. 
She has been loaded with amiodarone and is currently on 800 mg a day , split into 200 mg q.6h. 
p.o. and after 10 days she should be changed to 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
This will take place on February She initially tolerated amiodarone very poorly secondary to nausea , so her dose was titrated up gradually. 
c. Peripheral vascular disease: Ms. Bellucci has extensive peripheral vascular disease and Vascular Surgery is following her for a likely compartment syndrome in her right calf secondary to ischemia upon insertion of intraaortic balloon pump. 
She is having the circumferences of her cath measured once or twice a day and these have not been increasing , have in fact been decreasing. 
Also , her creatinine kinase levels have been followed as a surrogate for compartment syndrome and these have been decreasing and are currently normal. 
At the time of this dictation , her CK was 75 down from the 10 , 000 range. 
She was on heparin for some time and although her cath continues to be tender , the pain has improved and the function has gradually returned. 
Her pulses remained poor. 
She had lower extremity noninvasive Dopplers to evaluate her arterial venous flow and no clot was noted in the venous circulation. 
There was no comment made on the FEM-FEM graft , however , but no note was made of an arterial clot. 
She should have the circumferences of her right calf followed closely at the place that they are marked on the right lower extremity. 
2. Renal: Ms. Bellucci has acute on chronic renal failure. 
She was admitted with a creatinine of 2.7 and her creatinine has been up and down depending on the timing of her dialysis; however , she is relatively anuric , but occasionally produces small volumes of urine and this should be followed carefully as well. 
She is continuing on prednisone and azathioprine for her transplant and she did have one positive UA , but this is not being treated because it is difficult to assess secondary to her extremely concentrated urine , but should be followed if she does produce urine. 
This may be permanent , but it is not clear at this point she may be on hemodialysis indefinitely. 
She is on fluid restriction per renal recommendations of 1000 cc per day intake and her ARB is being held for now. 
3. ID: Ms. Bellucci spiked on 11/5/04 to 101.8 and she has been found to have a line infection with a positive triple-lumen catheter tip as well as positive blood cultures. 
She was started on vancomycin on 4/7/04 and this is being dosed according to her vancomycin troughs , which are drawn once a day. 
If her trough is near or below 15 she should be given one dose of vancomycin and this has turned out to be approximately every other day. 
4. Heme: Ms. Bellucci 's platelets have been dropping from the 100s to the mid 50s since she was started on amiodarone. 
It is not clear what the source is. 
She has had two negative HIT antibodies , platelet factor IV antibodies , and her platelets seemed to have stabilized in the high 40s , mid 50s and she is not showing any signs of acute bleed , but this has been communicated with Electrophysiology Service who is aware of the possibility that amiodarone may be causing her thrombocytopenia and the amiodarone has been continued unless her thrombocytopenia worsens significantly. 
She is also on a number of other medications that may cause thrombocytopenia and these will be followed as well , however , it was only the amiodarone for which the timing was coincident with the drop in her platelets. 
5. Pulmonary: Ms. Bellucci has a large right pleural effusion; it was tapped on 10/14/04 , 600 cc were removed. 
It was noted to be transudative. 
The tap was complicated by the patient slipping off her bed during the procedure. 
She was caught and did not fall , but the pleural effusion was not completely drained and she developed a small hydropneumothorax. 
This should be followed. 
She also had a CT subsequently to rule out hemothorax and there was no evidence of that. 
The pleural effusion is evident on her chest x-rays with underlying consolidation. 
There has been no compromise , however , in her apparent pulmonary status and this should be followed since it will likely reaccumulate after tapping , but if she becomes more symptomatic it should be tapped. 
6. 
Ms. Bellucci is on prednisone. 
For her diabetes , she is on NPH and an insulin sliding scale. 
7. She experienced an increase in her LFTs , her transaminases bumped to several 100s , and her total bilirubin peaked at 1.8 , her alkaline phosphatase also bumped , however , this may have been secondary to the starting Lipitor and this was discontinued. 
They have trended down since then. 
It is not clear exactly the source of her increase in LFTs. 
She has been restarted on Zocor at a very low dose at 10 mg and this should be titrated up as her LFTs tolerate. 
She was on Zocor as an outpatient and we hope that this is not a class effect and that it is not going to be related to the dose of her Zocor. 
8. GI: Her nausea should be treated with p.r.n. 
Ativan and Zofran. 
She has a Compazine allergy. 
9. Code status: Ms. Bellucci is DNR/DNI , but family does desire that if they may help that pressures in shock can be used. 
eScription document: 6-8885694 ISSten Tel Dictated By: DALONZO , TELMA Attending: MCRORIE , DENISHA Dictation ID 3071562 D: 6/28/04 T: 6/28/04