356637867 | PUO | 54795665 | | 298253 | 8/8/1999 12:00:00 AM | CHOLECYSTITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/20/1999 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/9/1999 DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: ( 1 ) CHOLOLITHIASIS. ( 2 ) CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Beckfield is a 68-year-old dutch speaking man with a known history of coronary artery disease , who was in his usual state of health until August , 1999 when he began to developed right upper quadrant pain , and was seen by his primary care physician and sent to the emergency room with a diagnosis of possible early acute cholecystitis. 
The patient was admitted to the Surgical Service at Pagham University Of , but managed medically without a operative procedure with antibiotics including ampicillin , gentamicin , and Flagyl. 
The quality of the patient's right upper quadrant pain was noted as sharp and constant with nausea but no vomiting , fevers , chills , back pain , or urinary symptoms. 
The pain lasted several hours postprandially and had no radiation. 
In addition , the patient denies chest pain or shortness of breath. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: ( 1 ) Coronary artery disease. 
( 2 ) Hypertension. ( 3 ) Diabetes. ( 4 ) Hyperlipidemia. ( 5 ) History of posterior thoracic abscess , removed in April 1995. 
( 6 ) History of scrotal abscess with necrotizing fasciitis in 1992. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS: ( 1 ) Aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d. ( 2 ) Lisinopril 40 milligrams q.d. ( 3 ) Mevacor 40 milligrams q.d. ( 4 ) Insulin NPH subcutaneous 50 units q.a.m. ( 5 ) Regular insulin subcutaneous 10 units q.a.m. ( 6 ) Nitroglycerin sublingual p.r.n. chest pain. 
( 7 ) Atenolol 50 milligrams q.d. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with his wife , and has smoked one and one-half packs per day for 34 years. 
He has minimal alcohol use and , in fact , has not drank alcohol since 1984. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 97.7. 
Pulse 52. Blood pressure 98/98. 
Respirations 18. HEENT: Anicteric. 
Oropharynx clear. 
No bruits. 
LUNGS: Lungs are clear to auscultation. 
CARDIOVASCULAR: Cardiac examination regular rhythm. 
Normal S1 , S2. No murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
BACK: Back has no costovertebral angle tenderness. 
No spinal tenderness. 
ABDOMEN: Obese with positive bowel sounds. 
Right upper quadrant tenderness and guarding but no rebound , and no Murphy's sign. 
EXTREMITIES: No cyanosis , clubbing or edema. 
NEUROLOGICAL: Examination was intact. 
LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 142 , potassium 4.1 , CO2 102 , bicarbonate 30 , BUN 15 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose 247. 
WBC at 11.2 , hematocrit 41.2 , platelets 258. 
ALT 122 , AST 172 , alkaline phosphatase 211 , total bilirubin 0.7 , direct bilirubin 0.2. 
Amylase 38 , Albumin 3.7 , calcium 9.2 , phosphate 3.0. 
Urinalysis was negative. 
DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: Electrocardiogram normal sinus rhythm at 62 with no signs of acute ischemia. 
Chest x-ray is clear. 
HOSPITAL COURSE ( by system ): ( 1 ) Gastrointestinal: The patient was admitted to the Surgical Service for , likely , cholecystis , and managed medically. 
He was made n.p.o. , and hydrated with intravenous fluids and started on triple antibiotics including ampicillin , gentamicin , and Flagyl. 
The patient remained afebrile with a normal white blood count throughout his hospital course on the Surgical Service. 
However , his alkaline phosphatase and total bilirubin became elevated and the Gastroenterology Medical Service was consulted for consideration of ERCP. 
The patient then underwent ERCP on March , 1999 , where a distal common bile duct stone was noted , and an attempt at removal of the stone was made. 
However , the stone could not be extracted. 
Therefore , the procedure was aborted , and the patient was transferred to the Medical Service for further management. 
The patient's liver function tests remained stable after the attempt of the common bile duct stone removal , and he continued to remain pain free and afebrile. 
Given the observation of a common bile duct stone , the GI Service thought it appropriate to take the patient back for repeat ERCP two days later. 
Repeat ERCP showed that there was no residual stone , and no additional stones were noted. 
The patient was then advanced on his diet , which he tolerated with no further symptoms. 
The patient continued to be followed by the Surgical Service who recommended , then , an elective cholecystectomy as an outpatient at a later date. 
( 2 ) Cardiovascular: Given the patient's history of coronary artery disease , a cardiology consult was obtained by the Surgical Service , who then continued to follow the patient once he was transferred to the Medical Service. 
Preoperative evaluation for possible cholecystectomy was performed , and it was noted that the patient's coronary artery disease included the following history: The patient had a coronary catheterization in 1995 , which revealed a 30 percent left anterior descending artery , proximal as well as mid stenosis , as well clean circumflex , 70 to 90 percent obtuse marginal lesion , and a 40 percent , 40 percent , and 70 percent serial right coronary artery lesions , as well as a 70 percent posterior descending artery lesion. 
At that time , obtuse marginal angioplasty was performed. 
An left ventriculogram revealed an ejection fraction of 69 percent at the time. 
In January 1996 , the patient had an exercise tolerance test , in which the patient went six minutes and 30 seconds with 1 millimeter ST depressions , which were highly predictive of ischemia , but the patient had no symptoms , and he refused intervention at that time. 
The cardiology consult concluded that given the patient's history of coronary artery disease , a recommendation was made to perform a nuclear imaging study to assess the patient's ischemic risk for a cholecystectomy. 
An exercise tolerance test MIBI was performed , in which the patient had a good work load. 
However , moderate to severe inferoapical ischemia was noted on MIBI images. 
Given the urgent need for ERCP during this hospital course , catheterization was postponed , and the patient remained chest pain free and symptom free throughout his hospital course from a cardiology perspective. 
He was continued on medications , which included Lopressor , lisinopril , and Diltiazem. 
Persistent hypertension was controlled by increasing the dose of beta blocker with good response. 
Aspirin was held secondary to consideration of ERCP and the possibility of gastrointestinal bleed. 
Given that the patient remained symptom free from a cardiac standpoint , cardiology consult decided that the patient's cardiac catheterization would be deferred until after this hospitalization , in light of the possible complications of adding a TB3A antagonist during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty in the context of possible ERCP. 
Therefore , the patient will be followed up in cardiology for elective catheterization. 
( 3 ) Endocrine: The patient's diabetes was well controlled with his insulin regimen , which was held while he was n.p.o. , as well as on an insulin sliding scale. 
( 4 ) Infectious disease: The patient remained afebrile throughout his hospital course , but was continued on ampicillin , gentamicin , and Flagly per surgery recommendations. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: ( 1 ) Aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d. ( 2 ) NPH insulin subcutaneous 50 units q.a.m. ( 3 ) Regular insulin subcutaneous 10 units q.a.m. ( 4 ) Lisinopril 40 milligrams p.o. q.d. ( 5 ) Nitroglycerin 1 tablet sublingual q.5 minutes times three p.r.n. chest pain. 
( 6 ) Procardia XL 90 milligrams p.o. q.d. ( 7 ) Atenolol 50 milligrams p.o. q.d. 
DISCHARGE ACTIVITY: As tolerated. 
DISCHARGE DIET: ADA 2 , 000 calories per day , low saturated fat , low cholesterol diet. 
FOLLOW UP: The patient will follow up with the surgery clinic for scheduling of elective cholecystectomy on October , 1999 , as well as follow up with cardiology for an elective catheterization. 
Dictated By: HERMINA TUOMALA , M.D. Attending: TRISH CHAIX , M.D. CR95 SL239/3046 Batch: 93100 Index No. XPUGCF43KJ D: 10/12/99 T: 5/10/99