408912427 | PUO | 13937870 | | 564417 | 10/28/2000 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/2/2000 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 10/24/2000 SERVICE: The service on which the patient received care was Cardiology Ma Avenue , Uxmarearb Cleve Nix , West Virginia 65028 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mrs. Rusconi is a 54-year-old female with coronary artery disease status post inferior myocardial infarction in October of 1997 , with sick sinus syndrome , status post permanent pacemaker placement , and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation controlled with amiodarone; also with history of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. 
She was admitted to the Speakey Community Medical Center for severe respiratory distress on 7/10 The summary of clinical events is as follows. 
The evening of 7/11 , the patient was having intercourse and "collapsed." 
She was very short of breath with this , and presented to the Emergency Department via the paramedics. 
They attempted to intubate her on the field and found her pulse oxygen to be about 60 percent on bag valve mask. 
They were unable to do so. 
She was described during this episode by her husband as to have been "gurgling." 
She began to describe shortness of breath , and took her inhalers which did not help. 
She began to cough quite a bit and coughed up some frothy white sputum. 
At the Emergency Department , she was immediately intubated at Hungna Coll Hutzj.ma Beachtl Community Hospital There was some difficulty intubating her , and she was ultimately intubated by the attending anesthesiologist there. 
An echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 25 to 30 percent with flat CKs. 
She was diuresed six liters with a stable BUN and creatinine and was extubated on 10/11 A right heart catheterization there showed a pulmonary artery pressure of 40/15 , wedge of 12 , cardiac output of 5.2. 
Hemodymanics in the Intensive Care Unit at Hungna Coll Hutzj.ma Beachtl Community Hospital indicate the patient's cardiac output was quite dependent on her SVR. 
Her cardiac index fell into the high two's when her SVR was in the 1340 range , but jumped up into the high three's at about 3.8 when her SVR was much lower down in the 800s. 
At the outside hospital , a right upper lobe infiltrate was also noted and she was given gentamicin 250 mg times one , and clindamycin 600 mg. 
She was diagnosed with pneumonia and treated with clindamycin , this caused resolution of her white count at the outside hospital. 
She also had an increase in her Lasix and lisinopril dose there , as well as her amiodarone. 
She was started on Solu-Medrol 40 mg intravenous q.6 hours for possible asthma. 
She did quite well after her treatment for pneumonia and treatment for pulmonary edema , and was transferred to the I Warho Hospital for further management. 
Her last admission was on 2/7 to the I Warho Hospital for atypical chest pain , when she had a nondiagnostic exercise tolerance test. 
She went 6 minutes and 19 seconds with a maximum heart rate of 94. 
Her chest pain then was ultimately attributed to a gastrointestinal cause. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease status post inferior myocardial infarction on 4/27 She was last admitted , as noted above , on 2/7 to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of for atypical chest pain. 
The patient has sick sinus syndrome and is status post dual chamber pacemaker in 6/19 Diabetes mellitus. 
Hypertension. 
Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , well-controlled in the past on amiodarone. 
Past rhythm monitoring has revealed brief runs of ventricular tachycardia. 
Negative breast biopsy in 3/13 MEDICATIONS: Home medications include amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. , Glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d. , Lopressor 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Prempro 0.625/2.5 
p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. q.d. , Coumadin , nitroglycerin sublingual , Zantac , beclomethasone , and Ventolin. 
Medications on transfer , Lovenox 60 mg b.i.d. , aspirin 325 p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , clindamycin 600 intravenous q.8 , digoxin 0.25 , Lopressor 100 mg b.i.d. , Zantac , Albuterol , Flovent , Solu-Medrol , and amiodarone 300 mg once a day. 
ALLERGIES: The patient is allergic to penicillin. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has a ten pack year smoking history and quit in 1968. 
No intravenous drug use. 
She is retired from Medical Records at LMC . 
She has three grown children and she is married. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Physical examination on admission is significant for a blood pressure of 114/93 , this is down from a very high blood pressure on admission at the outside hospital which was in the 200s. 
Pulse is 60 , temperature is 96.5 , saturating 97 percent on two liters. 
General , this is an agitated woman in no acute distress. 
Her neck veins were about 5.0 to 6.0 cm of water. 
The lung examination showed a few crackles in the left base with the right one clear. 
Cardiovascular examination revealed a split S1 and normal S2 , also a soft S3 , the presence of a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at the right upper sternal border was noted. 
The abdomen was benign , no hepatosplenomegaly noted. 
The extremities showed no edema , with intact distal pulses. 
Neurologically , the patient was alert and oriented times three with no focal deficits , but careful neurologic examination was impossible due to severe agitation and anxiety. 
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratory on admission was significant for a Troponin of 0.02 , CK of 80 , INR of 1.3 , hematocrit of 38.0 , BUN/creatinine of 24/0.6. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: Mrs. Rusconi was admitted to the I Warho Hospital and managed by problems as follows. 
Flash Pulmonary Edema: The initial concern for Mrs. Rusconi was of this being an ischemic event causing her to have flash pulmonary edema. 
However , coronary catheterization revealed the patient to have clean coronaries. 
Echocardiogram revealed a left ventricular hypertrophy with a low normal systolic function , with an ejection fraction of 50 to 55 percent. 
There was akinesis of the inferior wall present. 
She had normal right ventricular size and function. 
She had 1 to 2+ mitral regurgitation with mild left atrial enlargement and 1+ tricuspid regurgitation with a regurgitive velocity of about 2.7 meters per second consistent with minimal pulmonary systolic pressures. 
Subsequently the patient was noted to have had a history of hypothyroidism in the past , and she had normal TSH recently checked by her primary care physician , Dr. Sultaire , of LMC . 
However , with no other etiology present , we were worried about the patient having had tachyarrhythmia from some other source causing this. 
The Electrophysiology Service interrogated the patient's pacer which revealed a number of tachyarrhythmias. 
A TSH panel was checked which revealed a TSH of less than assay , and T4 free thyroxin index elevated. 
An Endocrinology consultation was obtained , and they believed that the patient's thyrotoxicosis was amiodarone induced. 
She was started on Tapazole 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. 
They also suggested prednisone , but the patient did refuse this. 
They recommended follow-up with Endocrine in about four to six weeks. 
Therefore , the final etiology for the patient's flash pulmonary edema was amiodarone induced thyrotoxicosis causing increased susceptibility to tachyarrhythmia , left ventricular hypertrophy , and possible diastolic dysfunction , resulting in acute pump dysfunction , causing flash pulmonary edema. 
The final therapy for this problem will consist of heavy nodal blockade. 
The patient will be blockaded with calcium channel blockers , as well as Lopressor. 
Pneumonia: The patient was treated with clindamycin and did quite well. 
Her white count fully resolved and she had no fever or other symptoms of pneumonia. 
She will be discharged without any further antibiotics. 
Urinary Tract Infection: She had a lot of uric crystals , therefore she was placed on Bactrim Double Strength b.i.d. times a total of seven days. 
Psychiatry: The patient has clearly severe anxiety and was in a full panic attack on admission. 
She was treated acutely with Ativan and her problem resolved quite well , and she became more comfortable in the hospital. 
Diabetes Mellitus: Glyburide was held initially on admission. 
She was covered with insulin sliding scale. 
Glyburide was restarted on the day of discharge. 
The patient was noted to have relatively high blood sugars , and these should be followed as an outpatient. 
Blood sugars as high as the mid 300s were noted. 
Edema: The patient clearly had some fluid accumulation which resolved with 20 mg of Lasix p.o. q.d. 
We will continue this and allow outpatient follow-up to determine whether or not she will need this in the future. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS INCLUDE: Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d. , lisinopril 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Tapazole 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Coumadin 5.0 mg p.o. q.p.m. , Bactrim Double Strength one tablet p.o. b.i.d. times four days after discharge , Prempro 0.625/2.5 
mg p.o. q.d. , Glyburide 5 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d. , atenolol 150 mg p.o. q.d. , diltiazem CD 240 mg p.o. q.d. 
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged home in good condition. 
FINAL DIAGNOSIS: Thyrotoxicosis. 
FOLLOW-UP: She will follow-up with Dr. Sultaire on Monday , 9/18 at 9:30 a.m. , and Dr. Buckman of I Warho Hospital Endocrinology at A , on 7/16 at 3:00 p.m. Dictated By: RUFUS BERNAS , M.D. NN13 Attending: DENISHA H. MCRORIE , M.D. XT0 CW612/9072 Batch: 56403 Index No. J0NB3Y82XG D: 3/10 T: 1/15 CC: 1. EUSTOLIA L. LAWRENTZ , M.D. KG12 , LAME MEDICAL CENTER , Ridolouis 2. CLAUDIA I. BUCKMAN , M.D. AN7 3. MACKENZIE TYACKE , M.D. KC8