222755927 | PUO | 29577753 | | 6363638 | 8/14/2006 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/27/2006 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: ATTENDING: GABHART , DORTHY M.D. CHIEF COMPLAINT: Right thigh burn , cellulitis and diabetic ketoacidosis. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Davalos is a 36-year-old woman with very poorly controlled type 1 diabetes and extensive end organ damage including end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis , right eye blindness , lower extremity neuropathy , gastroparesis and a history of extensive infections including VRE line sepsis , MRSA , abdominal abscesses and chronic dermal ulcers. 
Due to her dermal ulcers , she developed left ankle osteomyelitis requiring below-the-knee amputation. 
She was transferred from Norap Valley Hospital on 1/24/06 in DKA in the setting of a right thigh burn and possible infection. 
The patient was in her usual state of health until three days prior to admission when she spilled hot broth on her right thigh and developed a painful red bullae. 
She presented to Pande Memorial Hospital two days prior to admission , but still she had an infection. 
She was given a prescription for antibiotics , which she did not fill. 
The area of swelling in her right leg did not spread from the original blister area all the way up to her groin and grossly became more tender and warm. 
On the day of admission , she returned to the Norap Valley Hospital Emergency Room for evaluation. 
Of note , in going to the emergency room , she missed her regular hemodialysis. 
In the Norap Valley Hospital Emergency room , the following vital signs were noted. 
Temperature afebrile , heart rate 60 , blood pressure 150/50 , oxygen saturation 95% on room air. 
WBC 4.3 , hematocrit 38 , sodium 126 , potassium 7.9 , glucose 1221 , anion gap 13 , acetone negative , AST 385 , ALT 127 and alk phos 411. 
EKG revealed peak Q waves. 
The patient was given 20 units of IV insulin and then was started on an insulin drip 8 units per hour. 
She also received 2 amps of calcium gluconate as well as Kayexalate and albuterol nebs. 
A repeat Chem-7 in the P Therford Hospital ED showed a glucose of 1100 and an anion gap of 18 with potassium 5.4. 
The patient was transferred to the MICU at PUO for further management. 
At the time of her transfer , she noted left-sided headache , a warm feeling over her right thigh. 
She denied any recent fever , shortness of breath , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting or diarrhea. 
She did note that her last bowel movement was three days prior to admission. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Poor controlled type 1 diabetes. 
2. End-stage renal disease on hemodialysis Monday , Wednesday and Friday - left chest hemodialysis catheter for access. 
3. History of VRE line sepsis. 
4. History of MRSA. 5. History of abdominal abscess. 
6. Chronic dermal ulcers. 
7. CHF. 8. History of cardiac murmur. 
9. Seizure disorder. 
10. 
Multiple strokes. 
11. 
Chronic nausea. 
12. Personality disorder , deemed not to have capacity - guardian is Earlean Julias # 942-235-3140. 
HOME MEDICATIONS: 1. Lantus 24 units subcu each night. 
2. NovoLog sliding scale. 
3. PhosLo. 
4. Nephrocaps. 5. Vitamin D. 6. Sevelamer 1600 t.i.d. 7. Toprol 100 mg p.o. daily. 
8. Lisinopril 5 mg p.o. daily. 
9. Plavix 75 mg p.o. daily. 
10. 
Keppra 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. 11. 
Flovent two puffs b.i.d. 12. Albuterol p.r.n. 13. 
Baclofen 5 mg p.o. t.i.d. 14. 
Ambien 10 mg p.o. at bedtime p.r.n. 
TRANSFER MEDICATIONS: None. 
ALLERGIES: Aspirin causes tongue swelling. 
Codeine , erythromycin beef , poke and insulin all caused unknown reactions. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with a personal care assistant and her daughter. 
She has four children ages 5 to 20. 
She denies tobacco use or alcohol use. 
She denies any illegal drug use. 
Guardian is Earlean Julias , telephone number 942-235-3140. 
Per court order , the patient does not have capacity to make medical decisions. 
NOTABLE ADMISSION EXAM: Weight 70 kg. 
General , sleepy , but arousable A&amp;O x3 , conversant and cooperative. 
HEENT , blind right eye , left eye reactive. 
OP clear with moist mucous membranes. 
Neck supple. 
Chest clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
No dullness. 
Cardiovascular , JVP flat. 
Regular rate and rhythm. 
3/6 systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border with low rumble at the left lower sternal border radiating to the apex. 
No delaying carotid upstrokes. 
Abdomen distended. 
Positive bowel sounds. 
Nontender. 
Visible old peritoneal dialysis site with serosanguinous drainage and granulation , otherwise noninflamed and nontender. 
Extremities , left BKA , well healed. 
Right thigh 4 x 5-cm open bullae with clear drainage and a surrounding tender area of erythema and warmth extending up to the groin and down to the knee , 2+ dorsalis pedis pulse on the right. 
Neurological , A&amp;O x3 , cooperative , anxious about getting IV access. 
Skin , multiple excoriation , all subcentimeter macules. 
NOTABLE LABS: Sodium 133 , potassium 4.3 , chloride 98 , bicarbonate 19 , BUN 47 , creatinine 8.3 , calcium 8.5 , magnesium 2.1 , phosphate 2.9 , anion gap 15 , ALT 84 , AST 186 , alk phos 264 , T. bili 1.0 , troponin less than assay , BNP 4900 , amylase and lipase normal , serum osms 337 , lactate 4.7 , WBC 5.3 , hematocrit 31.6 , platelets 208 , 000 , INR 1.3. 
ABG 7.28/42/128. 
EKG normal sinus rhythm at 74 , normal axis , normal intervals , no ischemia , no peak T-waves. 
Echo in September 2006 , mild LVH , EF 65% to 70% , no wall motion abnormalities , mildly enlarged right ventricle , normal RV outflow tract , mild left atrial enlargement , mild right atrial enlargement , mild aortic stenosis , trace mitral regurgitation , trace tricuspid regurgitation , pulmonary artery pressure of 48 , IVC dilated with diminished respirophasic variation consistent with markedly elevated right atrial pressure. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: 1. DKA: The patient was stabilized in the MICU on an insulin drip and was then transferred to General Medicine for further management. 
Causes of DKA that were ruled out included the following - negative cardiac enzymes , unimpressive pancreatic enzymes , unimpressive lactate , normal LFTs. 
The patient's DKA was presumed to be due to her right thigh cellulitis in the setting of a local burn. 
She initially was given 500 mL normal saline boluses and then several 250 mL boluses. 
As she is aneuric , her boluses were stopped once the blood sugars were below 500. 
She initially was placed on insulin drip that was then transitioned to NPH and finally to Lantus 24 units subcu daily. 
Of note , the patient intermittently refused to take both her long-acting and her insulin sliding scale. 
As a result , an endocrinology consult was called. 
The patient was noted to be ordering extra food from the kitchen , which could in part explain her labile sugars. 
Despite careful diet and glucose control efforts , the patient still had sugars at times to the 500s. 
Endocrinology continues to leave recommendations about AC standing insulin in addition to her NovoLog sliding scale and Lantus insulin. 
The patient has a history of gastroparesis and therefore may not tolerate AC insulin very well. 
The patient's new covering team will continue to follow up with Endocrinology. 2. Right thigh cellulitis: The patient was placed on Augmentin and IV vancomycin. 
Her area of cellulitis has completely resolved at the present time with slight sloughing of the overlying skin. 
The underlying skin is pink with evidence of good granulation and no further evidence of infection. 
Given that her IV access is very difficult , the patient received some vancomycin , as she finishes hemodialysis every other day. 
3. End-stage renal disease: The patient missed her dialysis on the day of admission. 
Once in the hospital , her potassium was very difficult to control in part due to poor adherence with her renal diet and in part due to her very labile sugars. 
At times , her potassium would rapidly increase to a level higher than 6.5 requiring urgent dialysis. 
At the present time , the patient has been dialyzed daily since her admission. 
She is closely followed by renal with plans to continue dialysis while in the hospital. 
She should not receive any further intravenous fluids unless she has evidence of recurrent DKA , given her anuric state. 
Should she become acidotic , the patient can be managed with sodium bicarbonate and D5W in small boluses. 
4. Cardiovascular: Ischemia , there was no evidence of chest pain. 
The patient has showed no EKG signs of ischemia. 
Her cardiac enzymes remained negative. 
Lipids are pending at the present time. 
Lipid profile check is pending at the present time. 
Pump , the patient has a history of CHF with evidence of right heart failure likely due to valvular disease in some aspect of the diastolic dysfunction given her preserved ejection fraction. 
Her weight on admission was 70 kg. 
We did not know her dry weight. 
Dialysis is helping to manage her fluids given her aneuric status. 
Her O2 sats remained stable on room air throughout the hospitalization. 
Her hypertension has been somewhat poorly controlled and for that reason she was continued on her home dose of Lopressor 25 q.i.d. and switched to Captopril , which we continued to titrate at the present time. 
Rhythm , normal sinus rhythm. 
The patient is currently on telemetry with no signs of arrhythmia. 5. Fluids , electrolytes , nutrition: The patient was placed on a cardiac , renal and diabetic diet. 
She was noted to repeatedly order extra food from the kitchen supervisor. 
Nutrition endocrinology and nursing staff are all aware and are working diligently to prevent the patient from receiving more than 2000 calories per day as specified by her ADA diet. 
She is continuing her Nephrocaps and sevelamer. 
Prophylaxis , heparin 5000 units subcu t.i.d. - the patient has consistently refused her heparin. 
6. Consent: All interventions require consent from the patient's medical guardian , Earlean Julias ( please see number above ). 7. Code status: The patient is full code and this has been confirmed with the guardian. 
ADDENDUM Of note , on the night of 10/22/06 , the patient complained of severe cramping , right lower quadrant pain , which is new. 
She noted this pain has increased rapidly in the setting of diarrhea. 
Several C. diff studies , which were sent recently have been negative and the patient has had no blood in her diarrhea. 
Presumed cause is Augmentin , which has been stopped. 
The patient has continued to eat freely and is passing diarrhea despite her complaints of 10/10 severe abdominal pain. 
A CT scan of her abdomen was ordered , but she refused to take oral or IV contrast. 
The results of this CT scan are pending and will be followed up by the new medical team. 
eScription document: 4-8400539 CSSten Tel Dictated By: BERNO , LUCI Attending: FAITH PANAGOS , M.D. WE00 Dictation ID 3123444 D: 5/17/06 T: 5/17/06