739728642 | PUO | 41684491 | | 1017721 | 3/19/2004 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/19/2004 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: ATTENDING: GERARD MUHLSTEIN MD ADDENDUM Date of discharge is to be determined. 
SERVICE: General Medical Service Waen Rd In summary , this patient is a 73-year-old lady with a history of low back pain , sciatica , morbid obesity , spinal stenosis , hypothyroidism , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , posthepatic neuralgia , rheumatoid arthritis , renal insufficiency , deep vein thrombosis , bilateral total knee replacement secondary to degenerative joint disease , who is admitted on 8/15/04 for worsening low back pain. 
The following is a continuation of the hospital events during her stay. 
1. 
Low back pain: As stated before , she suffers from debilitating low back pain from morbid obesity , spinal stenosis , rheumatoid arthritis , and degenerative joint disease. 
During her hospitalization , her pain was treated with narcotics as well as a steroid/analgesic epidural injection. 
The Pain Service followed during her discharge day. 
Her pain control with narcotics was titrated with a fentanyl patch along with breakthrough p.o. Dilaudid. 
She was also titrated up on her chronic pain medications including Neurontin and Elavil. 
The patient had a history of sedation with too much narcotics , and her narcotics should be titrated for mental status changes. 
During her stay , she received IV conscious sedation MRI , which showed a normal spinal cord and spinal stenosis , facet involvement. 
Orthopedics surgery was consulted early during the hospitalization and they determined that there was no surgical indication for orthopedic surgery. 
They were also reconsulted later on when the patient appeared to want to have surgery , and at that time orthopedics surgery determined that the risk-benefit ratio was not in favor , and that she was not a surgical candidate in the context of a newly developed right lower extremity DVT. 
As mentioned before , the patient had an epidural injection with bupivacaine and steroids on 7/8/05 with minimal initial response to her pain. 
However , later , there was some improvement in her pain. 
The patient is to follow at the Pain Clinic in two weeks , as further appointments in the follow up section for a possible repeat epidural injection. 
In addition , she is to follow up with Dr. Eckloff within four weeks of the Orthopedics Surgery Service for reevaluation for the orthopedics surgery. 
In addition , she received aggressive physical therapy , which slowly enabled her to improve her range of movement in her lower extremities. 
She does have chronic and stable left lower extremity immobility. 
However , she is able to move her right leg somewhat and this has improved slowly over time with aggressive PT. 
The patient has very agreeable of recent days to physical therapy and is expected to continue to improve with continued aggressive physical therapy. 
This should be the mainstay of her treatment in addition to her pain control with her medications. 
She should be premedicated with Dilaudid or any pain control medications prior to any physical therapy session. 
2. Cardiovascular: The patient had stable cardiovascular parameters during her admission and did not require any significant changes in her outpatient medications. 
Medications are as listed in the discharge medications. 
3. Endocrine: She has severe diabetes mellitus and insulin resistence. 
Her NPH was titrated due to episodes of asymptomatic hypoglycemia to the range of 45 to 55 in the fasting morning glucoses of normal need. 
On discharge , the patient was maintained on NPH insulin b.i.d. as well as sliding scale of regular insulin. 
He also had a history of hypothyroidism and her Synthroid was continued. 
She had a history of renal insufficiency and received a chronic low dose of prednisone. 
She did not have any issues while she was in the hospital. 
4. Rheumatology: The patient has rheumatoid arthritis. 
Her prednisone was decreased in duration of her stay from prednisone 20 mg p.o. q.a.m. to 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. 
She also is on as an outpatient on her home dose of methotrexate 20 mg p.o. q. week , which was held during her hospitalization due to her acute issues. 
However , the methotrexate , which was prescribed by her outpatient rheumatology , should be restarted as an outpatient as soon as possible. 
She takes 20 mg p.o. q. week. 
5. Renal: Initially , the patient had a mild increase in her creatinine on presentation , but this improved to the normal range with gentle hydration. 
6. Infectious disease: The patient had a fever on 4/22/04 to 101 and on 6/26/05 to 101 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Cultures were negative. 
There were white blood cells in her urine and she was empirically given levofloxacin. 
She did have cough and sputum , and she was found to have MRSA in her sputum and was known to be colonized at this point , and was placed on precautions. 
However , her chest x-ray was clear. 
She did not have a clinical pneumonia. 
Her lower extremity appeared red and woody and there was question of cellulitis , and she received 10 days of p.o. Keflex , although it was unlikely she had two cellulitis. 
7. Pulmonary: She likely has obstructive sleep apnea with a mild decrease in O2 saturations at night. 
However , this was never clinically significant. 
Her body habitus and symptoms were consistent with obstructive sleep apnea. 
Chest x-rays were also taken during her course and were unchanged from her prior. 
Although , she has had a history of being fitted for a C-PAP mask , she refused to use this. 
8. Hematology: She was diagnosed with a DVT in her right leg by ultrasound on 6/26/05 , and was started on a heparin drip , which was bridged to warfarin with therapeutic INR during the rest of her stay. 
The plan is for her to continue six months of anticoagulation , then reevaluation by her outpatient primary care physician. 
Her current dose of Coumadin is 6 mg p.o. q.h.s. and this should be checked one week after discharge from the hospital in order to ensure a goal INR of 2 to 3. Until than she will be maintained on Lovenox 40 mg subu q.d. in the hospital , and this can be continued as needed as an outpatient. 
9. Physical therapy: As per above , the patient is engaged in physical therapy and showed improvement over time. 
10. 
GI: The patient has intermittent constipation to her pain medications and has poor p.o. intake in general , however , this improved over the course of admission. 
She requires an aggressive bowel regimen to keep her regular bowel movements and she will be often resonant to have a bowel movement due to the feeling of vertigo during the bowel movements. 
This , however , improved during time. 
She should be encouraged to allow herself to have bowel movement in the rest room if she is able. 
The goal will be for her to be able to sit on a toilet potty at the bedside. 
11. 
Fluids , electrolytes , and nutrition: The patient had intermittent , non-clinically significant hyperkalemia , which initially was corrected with Kayexalate and bowel movements. 
12. Psychiatric: The patient had intermittent vocalization of not caring if she lived or died because she had lived her life and she was in pain. 
She was seen by the psychiatry multiple times. 
She did not think that she was suicidal and only need emotional support to which she responded well. 
At the time of discharge , she was euthymic and hopeful and was eager to continue to improve her quality of life with aggressive physical therapy and pain control. 
She was looking forward to continuing her pain control management follow up visit with pain service. 
13. 
The patient has declared herself to be DNR/DNI. 
TO-DO PLAN , FOLLOW-UP PLAN: 1. Aggressive physical therapy and pain control , as directed by the pain clinic and her primary care physician. 
2. After her discharge from rehabilitation , she should follow up with her rheumatologist Dr. Gabisi , pain clinic , Dr. Azua , which is her primary care physician in Orthopedics. 
3. She is also noted to be MRSA colonized and should be on appropriate precautions. 
She should continue her Coumadin for six months for her deep vein thrombosis until otherwise directed by the physician. 
The pain clinic will consider additional therapy for pain including epidural repeat as an outpatient. 
The patient should restart her methotrexate as an outpatient. 
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENTS: At this time , she has an appointment with Dr. Mcmurry at the Totin Hospital And Clinic Pain Clinic at Sun E , phone number 378-234-0249 on 7/9/05 at 2:30 p.m. 
She also has an appointment with Dr. Eckloff , Orthopedic Surgery at the Pagham University Of Orthopedic Service on the Na Sa Go Louis at Pagham University Of , phone number 443-202-3796 on 10/1/05 at 10:30 a.m. 
She should have her INR drawn in one week after discharge and follow up INR is to be drawn every seven days until therapeutic. 
The INR should be followed by her rehabilitation/nursing facility. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Albuterol nebulizer 1.25 mg nebulizer q.4h. 
p.r.n. wheezing , Elavil 75 mg p.o. q.h.s. , atenolol 50 mg p.o. q.d. , bisacodyl 10 mg p.o. q.d. , folic acid 1 mg p.o. q.d. , Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Dilaudid 2 mg to 4 mg p.o. q.3h. 
p.r.n. pain , insulin NPH 30 units subcu q.p.m. , insulin NPH human 54 units subcu q.a.m. , Regular Insulin sliding scale , Synthroid 125 mcg p.o. q.d. , Lisinopril 20 mg p.o. q.d. , milk of magnesia 30 mL p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation , prednisone 10 mg p.o. q.a.m. , Sudafed 30 mg p.o. q.6h. 
p.r.n. , nasal congestion , senna tablets two tabs p.o. b.i.d. , Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.p.m. , no high vitamin K containing foods , Imdur 30 mg p.o. q.d. sustained release , Lipitor 80 mg p.o. q.d. , fentanyl patch 75 mcg per hour transdermally q.72h. 
, Neurontin 600 mg p.o. q.i.d. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Dulcolox 10 mg 20 mg PR q.d. p.r.n. constipation , lactulose 15 mL and 30 mL p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , titrate to one to two bowel movements per day. 
eScription document: 7-2277298 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: SCHUNEMAN , ELLENA Attending: MUHLSTEIN , GERARD Dictation ID 2791626 D: 9/15/05 T: 9/15/05