849420538 | PUO | 24466939 | | 6335692 | 9/10/2006 12:00:00 AM | OSTEOMYELITIS LT. FOOT | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/5/2006 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 4/11/2006 ATTENDING: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE MD DATE OF ADMISSION: 4/5/06 DATE OF DISCHARGE: 2/29/06 HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This patient is a 72-year-old female with a left plantar fifth metatarsal ulcer since 3/14 The patient previously had an ulcer in the same area , which healed successfully. 
The patient had recurrence of her neuropathic ulcer and it has worsened and deepened with progression to osteomyelitis involving the metatarsal phalangeal joint. 
The patient's wound healing has been confounded by longstanding lower extremity edema and as well as congestive heart failure and venous stasis. 
The ulcer has been previously treated with debridement , however , in 5/23 , it became infected and the patient developed left lower extremity cellulitis , which progressed to the knee. 
The patient was treated with antibiotics and subsequently developed profuse diarrhea and was found to have a Clostridium difficile infection. 
The patient was treated with oral Flagyl and vancomycin. 
She presents on admission with continued loose stool. 
The patient had previously undergone a three-phase bone scan , which was positive for osteomyelitis and then confirmed by a gallium scan. 
The patient has had decreased sensation from bilateral mid tibia extending distally and denies pain. 
The patient is admitted from a rehabilitation facility where she undergoes physical therapy. 
At baseline , the patient has poor ambulation and is wheelchair bound. 
The patient's cardiovascular risk factors include her diabetes , venous stasis , coronary artery disease , hypertension , elevated cholesterol , and neuropathy. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Lower extremity edema and venous stasis. 
2. Right knee gout. 
3. Ischemic cardiomyopathy , requiring AICD. 4. Status post removal of thyroid tumor. 
5. Status post triple bypass coronary artery bypass graft surgery. 
6. Status post multiple myocardial infarctions. 
7. Status post placement of coronary stents. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Atorvastatin 20 mg p.o. at night , gabapentin 300 mg p.o. at bedtime , allopurinol 150 mg p.o. daily , torsemide 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , fentanyl patch 50 mcg an hour q.72 h. 
, potassium chloride 80 mEq daily , omeprazole 20 mg daily , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , vancomycin 250 mg orally three times a day , Flagyl 500 mg three times a day , NPH insulin 25 units in the morning , and oxycodone 5 mg q.4 h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
ALLERGIES: Sulfa causes angioedema. 
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: On 5/5/2006 , the patient underwent debridement of her left foot and amputation of the left fifth metatarsal phalangeal joint. 
On 10/19/2006 , the patient underwent closure of her wound. 
OTHER TREATMENTS AND PROCEDURES: CT angiogram: 1. Diffuse atherosclerotic disease with multiple focal areas of mild-to-moderate stenosis seen in the origin of the SMA , bilateral renal arteries , common and superficial femoral arteries and popliteal arteries. 
2. Occlusion of the mid third of the posterior tibial artery with distal reformation on the right side. 3. Three-vessel run off in the left leg. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Vascular Surgery Service on 5/5/2006 after undergoing her amputation. 
No concerning intraoperative events occurred; please see dictated operative note for details. 
She was transferred to the floor from the PACU in stable condition. 
The patient had adequate pain control and was tolerating a regular diet by postoperative day #0. 
She was placed on a fluid restriction in light of her congestive heart failure. 
The patient's wound was clean with no evidence of hematoma collection. 
She underwent wet-to-dry dressing changes t.i.d. 
The patient underwent a CT angiogram to evaluate her lower extremity vasculature; please see the results noted above in the procedure section. 
In summary , the patient's three-vessel run off to the left lower extremity indicated that she would not likely need a bypass for wound healing at this time. 
In addition , because the patient's wound was clean , Dr. Loerwald deemed that it is appropriate to proceed the closure of the wound. 
As a result , on 10/19/2006 , the patient returned to the operating room and underwent closure of her wound; please see Dr. Varel 's dictated operative note for details of this procedure. 
Following both of the patient's procedures , her pain was well controlled with oral pain medications. 
The patient's cardiovascular status remained stable postoperatively. 
She did continue on her home/rehabilitation facility medication regimen for her cardiovascular issues. 
The patient remained stable from a respiratory standpoint. 
The patient did continue to have loose bowel movements during her hospital stay. 
She continued on her admission regimen for Clostridium difficile , which consisted of oral Flagyl and oral vancomycin. 
There were multiple attempts to save a stool specimen; either the patient did not save the stool at times or it was mixed with copious amounts of urine. 
As a result , a Clostridium difficile test is pending at the time of discharge and will need to be followed up for test of cure while at rehabilitation. 
The patient's hemodynamic status was monitored closely as well as her fluid status. 
The patient was placed on a 1500 mL fluid restriction due to her CHF. 
The patient did have a slight rise in her creatinine from 1.4 to 1.8 , at the time of discharge , the patient's creatinine was trending back down to 1.4. 
The patient's electrolytes were monitored and repeated as necessary during her hospital stay. 
The patient received subcutaneous heparin for DVT prophylaxis while as an inpatient. 
The patient's cultures from the operating room were positive for MRSA , and as a result , she continued on IV vancomycin. 
The patient is to continue her IV vancomycin regimen through follow up with Dr. Loerwald in clinic. 
The patient was seen by the Diabetes Management Service for evaluation of her diabetes as her blood sugars were elevated on her admission regimen. 
As a result , the Diabetes Management Service recommended a regimen consisting of 25 units of NPH in the morning , 8 units of NPH at bedtime , a standing NovoLog regimen of 4 units with meals in addition a NovoLog sliding scale with meals and at bedtime. 
The remainder of the patient's hospital course was relatively unremarkable and she is to be discharged in stable condition back to rehabilitation with adequate pain control. 
The patient was given explicit instructions to follow up in clinic with Dr. Loerwald in one to two weeks. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6 h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
2. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. daily. 
3. Allopurinol 100 mg p.o. daily. 
4. Atorvastatin 20 mg p.o. at bedtime. 5. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 6. Fentanyl patch 50 mcg an hour q.72 h. 7. Gabapentin 300 mg p.o. at bedtime. 
8. NovoLog sliding a.c. and at bedtime. 
9. NovoLog 4 units a.c. 10. 
NPH insulin 25 units every morning. 
11. 
NPH insulin 8 units at bedtime. 
12. Potassium chloride immediate release 40 mEq by mouth twice a day. 
13. 
Lopressor 12.5 mg twice a day. 
14. 
Flagyl 500 mg p.o. three times a day. 
15. 
Omeprazole 20 mg p.o. daily. 
16. 
Oxycodone 5-10 mg p.o. q.4 h. 
p.r.n. pain. 
17. Torsemide 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. 18. Triamcinolone 0.1% topical daily applied bilaterally to the shin. 
19. 
Vancomycin 1 g IV q.24 h. 
, the patient is to continue this medication through follow up with Dr. Lavee , at which time , he will determine the length of treatment. 
20. Vancomycin 250 mg p.o. q.6 h. 
PENDING RESULTS: At the time of dictation , the patient has a stool specimen on the way to the microbiology lab , which will need to be followed up for test of cure. 
PHYSICIAN FOLLOW-UP PLANS: The patient is to follow up with Dr. Loerwald in approximately one to two weeks for evaluation of her wound and length of treatment with intravenous vancomycin. 
DISPOSITION: The patient is discharged to rehabilitation. 
eScription document: 3-6456177 EMSSten Tel Dictated By: SPRATTE , DESIRE Attending: MANKOSKI , ROSSIE Dictation ID 2109648 D: 2/29/06 T: 2/29/06