062547234 | PUO | 39316276 | | 2638315 | 3/23/2005 12:00:00 AM | AORTIC STENOSIS , MITRAL REGURGITATION , TRICUSPID INSUFFICIENCY , ?CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 3/23/2005 Report Status: Unsigned Discharge Date: 11/5/2005 ATTENDING: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON MD ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: Aortic insufficiency , mitral insufficiency , tricuspid insufficiency and atrial fibrillation. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This 78-year-old male with long history of moderate mitral regurgitation as well as aortic regurgitation. 
He was noted on EKG in 2003 to be in atrial fibrillation was asymptomatic at that time. 
The patient also in October of 2005 had an acute MI and at that time underwent angioplasty and stent placement with a drug-eluting stents of the LAD and the diagonal arteries. 
He on admission was not on any Plavix for the stents. 
He has been in congestive heart failure with multivalvular dysfunction now noted to have severe pulmonary hypertension with estimated PA pressures in 99 mmHg plus RA pressures and referred for surgical repair of his valves. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient's past medical history is significant for the aortic , mitral , and tricuspid regurgitation as stated above with high PA pressures as well as atrial fibrillation also as stated above , status post angioplasty with drug-eluting stents of his LAD and diagonal arteries. 
The patient also has a history of hypercholesterolemia , recent immunosuppressive therapy with prednisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. for ITP. 
The patient also is in atrial fibrillation with Coumadin therapy. 
The patient has history of squamous cell carcinoma of his left tonsils requiring XRT. 
His creatinine clearance is estimated as 55 mL per minute. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY: Bilateral inguinal hernia repairs in 1960 and 1990 , wisdom teeth extractions in 2/27/05. 
Father had sudden death without any obvious cause at the age of 62 and mother died of colon cancer at the age of 65. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: History of tobacco use. 
History of cigar smoking. 
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies. 
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Toprol 100 mg p.o. once a day , Mavik 4 mg p.o. b.i.d. , aspirin 81 mg p.o. once a day with Coumadin p.o. once a day , Lasix 80 mg p.o. once a day , prednisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. and Lipitor 10 mg p.o. once a day , Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. and Lipitor 10 p.o. at bedtime. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: He is 6 foot 2 inches , 71 kilograms. 
Temperature of 98 , heart rate of 78 , blood pressure in the right arm of 102/62. 
Blood pressure on the left arm 104/62 , O2 sat of 98. HEENT: PERRLA , dentition without evidence of infection. 
No carotid bruit. 
Chest: No incision. 
Cardiovascular: Irregular rhythm with a systolic ejection murmur noted that is holosystolic. 
Pulses , 2+ pulses bilaterally of the carotid , radial and femoral and 1+ bilaterally of the dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial. 
Allen's test of left upper extremity is indicated as poor waveform as well as the right. 
Breath sounds clear bilaterally. 
Abdomen: Status post bilateral inguinal hernia repair , soft , no mass noted. 
Rectal: Deferred. 
Extremities: Without scarring , varicosity , or edema. 
Neuro: Alert and oriented with no focal deficits. 
LABORATORY DATA: On 10/10/05 , chemistries: Sodium of 135 , K of 4.5 , chloride of 100 , CO2 of 30 , BUN of 44 , creatinine 1.1 , glucose of 124 , and magnesium of 2.4. 
Hematology from 11/18/05 , white count of 9.4 , hematocrit of 39 , hemoglobin of 13 , platelets of 120 , the PT , INR , and PTT from the day before of the 28 of November , the preop values PT of 16 , INR 1.3 , and PTT of 22.9. 
Echo on 6/6/05 , left ventricle was moderately dilated. 
Overall LV function was low normal , the estimated EF of 50-55. 
The ventricle was mildly hypokinetic with regional variation and right ventricle size is mildly enlarged , global right ventricular systolic function is moderately reduced. 
The left atrium is moderately dilated and right atrium is moderately dilated. 
The aortic valve is trileaflet calcified and mild-to-moderate aortic regurgitation as noted. 
Mitral valve is thickened and mildly retracted with malcoaptation , moderate-to-severe mitral regurgitation in some views. 
The valve does not appear to coapt. 
Tricuspid valve is structurally normal , but severe tricuspid regurgitation is noted with PA pressures of 99 mmHg plus right heart pressures. 
Pulmonic valve is indicated as normal with mild pulmonic regurgitation. 
Aortic root size is normal measuring 3.6 cm , PA arteries normal size , inferior vena cava is noted to be dilated , but not pulsatile. 
EKG on 5/25/05 , atrial fibrillation at the rate of 70. Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly. 
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted on 10/10/05 and underwent a cardiac catheterization which showed 25% proximal LAD , 30% mid RCA , right dominant circulation. 
The ventriculogram showed an ejection fraction of 64%. 
Hemodynamics PA mean of 22 , pulmonary capillary wedge of 7 , cardiac output of 4.0 , cardiac index of 2.1 and an SVR of 1239 and PVR of 319 with moderate aortic insufficiency and moderate mitral insufficiency. 
The patient was taken to the operating room on 11/18/05 , and underwent an aortic valve replacement with a 23 Carpentier-Edwards magna valve and a mitral valve repair with a 23 CarboMedics AnnuloFlex ring and a tricuspid valve repair. 
The patient also had bilateral maze procedure with also resection of the left atrial appendage , as well as his right atrial appendage. 
The patient had two A-wires and ventricular wire placed and was initially paced after the maze procedure. 
The patient came off the heart lung machine on epinephrine , levo , and milrinone and was taken up to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit and extubated on late postop day #1. 
The patient's hospital course by systems , Neurological: The patient remained intact with no focal deficits , however , the patient experienced dysphasia due to his tonsil cancer status post XRT , failing speech and swallow and finally requiring a PEG placement for nutritional support. 
Cardiovascular: The patient was status post a maze procedure and initially was paced and found to be in a junctional rhythm at 60 then recovery of normal sinus rhythm , however , postoperatively had gone into a rate controlled atrial fibrillation requiring low-dose beta-blocker as well as anticoagulation. 
However , he did see few episodes of sinus rhythm and currently on discharges in sinus rhythm and rate controlled on low-dose beta-blocker. 
The patient did have an echo postoperatively to evaluate his valve replacement and repair and found to have normal LV size and function with an EF of 55%. 
The patient had mild RV enlargement , mild left atrial enlargement as well as right atrial enlargement. 
The aortic valve was noted to be well seated with trace AI , mitral valve status post repair showed mild mitral regurgitation , tricuspid valve status post repair showed mild tricuspid repair with PA pressures of 40 mmHg. 
There was no pericardial effusion found and patient will be discharged on low-dose beta-blocker as well as anticoagulation. 
Respiratory: Patient was extubated on late postoperative day #1 and patient was on Lasix for diuresis postoperatively. 
The patient , however , on postoperative day #10 , was noted to have a temperature and culture showed that he had enterobacter in his sputum and is being treated with ceftriaxone for a 14-day course. 
His discharge chest x-ray shows no evidence consolidation and mild atelectasis at the left base , no pulmonary edema noted. 
GI: The patient had a history of GERD and was on Zantac preoperatively and was on proton pump postoperatively and switched over to Pepcid for GI prophylaxis. 
The patient also was closely followed by the speech and swallow team and due to his dysphagia status post squamous cell carcinoma resection of his left tongue and XRT , patient continues to have dysphasia , unable to protect his airway and by postoperative day #14 underwent a PEG placement and now at goal of 70 mL per hour to see if he is tolerating without any problems. 
The patient however was on diuresis for a period of time and required few doses of fluid bolus for his volume status. 
Renal: The patient had a stable BUN and creatinine throughout his postoperative course , was on Lasix for diuresis postop without no elevation in his creatinine. 
Endocrine: The patient was on portland protocol intraoperatively and switched over to sliding scale insulin postoperatively due to his tube feeds. 
He is on regular insulin standing now at 6 units with sliding scale for coverage. 
Heme: The patient was noted to have a drop in his platelets postoperatively. 
Two hit screens were sent which were found to be negative and patient had recovery of his platelets with discharge platelets of 196. 
The patient will be discharged on Coumadin for atrial fibrillation. 
Today's INR is 2.1 and he will be getting his preop dose of 2.5 mg tonight and to follow closely with his INR. 
He is also on baby aspirin for his coronary artery disease and patient was not on Plavix for his stent preoperatively and will not be on discharge. 
ID: The patient received vancomycin for surgical prophylaxis. 
On postoperative day #10 , the patient was noted to have a temperature of 101 and was cultured. 
Sputum grew out enterobacter and patient was started on ceftriaxone and will complete a 14-day course of ceftriaxone. 
The patient during that time received neb treatments , chest physical therapy and is still continuing to bring up some secretion. 
The patient was noted also to have a heel blister on his left heel which was debrided and now is very clean and dry ulcer that was evaluated by the skin nurse and felt that Xeroform would be the best treatment at this time and the legs should be elevated on pillows to relieve any pressure off of the heel for continual healing and prevention or breakdown. 
The patient is in stable condition and has been accepted to a rehab bed on postoperative day #20 and will be discharged to the rehab facility in stable condition on these following medications. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Acetaminophen 325 mg to 650 mg p.o. q. 4h. p.r.n. fever , enteric coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. once a day , ceftriaxone 2000 mg IV daily x3 more dose to complete a 14-day course , Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , insulin scale as well as insulin regular at 6 units subq q. 6h. , but to hold when tf are off , lisinopril 5 mg p.o. once a day , Lopressor 12.5 mg p.o. q.i.d. , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , prednisone 20 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Ocean spray inhaler q.i.d. x5 days , DuoNeb inhaler p.r.n. wheezing , Lipitor 10 mg p.o. once a day , Coumadin to take as directed tonight's dose will be 2.5 mg p.o. once a day. 
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENTS: The patient should follow his Coumadin dosing as he did preoperatively with his primary care physician , Dr. Brend His phone number is ( 614 ) 512-3688. 
The patient should also make these follow-up appointments with his cardiologist , Dr. Meduna in two weeks. 
His phone number is ( 318 ) 792-6534. 
If he is unable to make this appointment , he should see his PCP , Dr. Neblett in two weeks. 
He should also make an appointment with his PCP in two to four weeks for evaluation. 
His phone number is ( 614 ) 512-3688. 
The patient should follow up with Dr. Colasamte in six weeks for postsurgical evaluation. 
His phone number is ( 934 ) 007-9881. 
DISPOSITION: This is Tomika Afzal , PA , completing a discharge summary on Dovie Masella who will be discharged to the rehab facility in stable condition on postop day #20. 
eScription document: 1-6682976 JSSten Tel Dictated By: AFZAL , TOMIKA Attending: COLASAMTE , ISABELLE EVON Dictation ID 2351700 D: 1/14/05 T: 1/14/05