588034772 | PUO | 85230269 | | 2500427 | 9/11/2006 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/11/2006 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: ATTENDING: BUSSLER , FRAN M.D. PRINCIPLE ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Bacteremia , peri-sepsis and apnea. 
PRINCIPLE DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: Bacteremia , peri-sepsis and apnea , as well as failure to tolerate p.o. diets. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: He is an 81-year-old man primarily Russian-speaking , with a history of multiple medical problems including coronary artery disease status post an MI in 2004 as well as a cath at the same time with percutaneous intervention , congestive heart failure with an ejection fraction of 45-50% , atrial fibrillation on anticoagulation and a partial pacemaker for sick sinus syndrome , multiple strokes x4 , diabetes mellitus type 2 and COPD , who was recently admitted to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of for bacteremia with Streptococcus oralis without a clear source. 
His white blood cell count had increased to 20. His INR had been supratherapeutic on admission at that time to 14. 
At that time , he had had a transesophageal echocardiogram which did not show any vegetations and he was discharged to rehab on 3/15/06 with a course of IV penicillin through a PICC line , as well as oral Flagyl empirically for an elevated white count. 
At the rehab facility where he was placed , the patient was found to have pulled his PICC line and the patient was complaining of being short of breath and having some mental status changes. 
He was treated with some sublingual nitroglycerin at the outside facility and brought to the Kernan To Dautedi University Of Of Emergency Room , where a chest x-ray showed some lack of the PICC line and the short of breath quickly improved in the emergency room. 
He was , however , lethargic and then at times , apneic in the emergency room. 
A gas was performed which showed respiratory alkalosis with a pH of 7.5 , a pCO2 of 34 and a pAO2 of 135. 
The patient then became slightly hypotensive with systolic blood pressures to the 90s , was given IV fluid boluses as well as treated empirically with vancomycin and ceftazidime , to which his blood pressure responded by going up to around 100-110/60. 
Given his apnea , a CPAP was initiated in the emergency department and his oxygenation issues quickly resolved. 
A head CT was performed , which was negative. 
A right internal jugular line was placed and gentle rehydration therapy according to early goal-directed therapy for peri-sepsis was initiated , given the presumption of repeat bacteremia and early sepsis. 
He was admitted to medicine for further management. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Coronary artery disease status post MI in 2004 and a cath in 2005. 
He is status post a hip fracture in 2005. 
He has peripheral vascular disease , diabetes , COPD but not reported to be on any home oxygenation , dementia , Paget disease , atrial fibrillation , BPH , congestive heart failure , EF of 45-50% , hypertension , diabetes and hypercholesterolemia. MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION included the following: Glucotrol 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. and lisinopril 5 mg p.o. q. day , metformin 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x10 days which was started on 5/5/06 , sublingual nitroglycerin p.r.n. , nystatin suspension q.i.d. , Zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. q. h.s. , Penicillin G 3 million units IV q. 4h x7 days , Milk of Magnesia , Tylenol p.r.n. , Dulcolax p.r.n. , Colace p.r.n. , atenolol 50 mg q. day , Lipitor 20 mg q. day , Senna liquid q. h.s. , Flomax 0.4 q. day. 
ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: He has a history of heavy tobacco use. 
He quit 40 years ago. 
He lives at home with a 24-hour attendant and he rarely uses alcohol. 
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAM notable for the following: His temperature was 95.9 , his heart rate was 60 , his blood pressure was 110/62. 
He is satting 98% on a CPAP machine. 
In general , he was in no acute distress in restraints. 
His head and neck exam was notable for a supple neck. 
Pupils are equal , round and reactive. 
His heart demonstrated a regular rate and rhythm. 
His JVP was flat. 
He did not demonstrate any murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
His pulmonary exam was clear anteriorly. 
His abdominal exam was noted for being soft , nontender , and nondistended with positive bowel sounds and mild tympani. 
He had good peripheral pulses with trace lower extremity edema. 
His neuro exam was nonfocal. 
OPERATIONS: During his hospital stay at this time included a PEG tube placement which happened on 10/25/06. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. ID: The patient has a history of recent strep oralis bacteremia and leukocytosis. 
He was afebrile at the time of admission; however , given concern for possible early sepsis given his blood pressure , he was treated with empiric IV fluids and antibiotics with vancomycin and ceftazidime. 
His chest x-ray looked like it might have some aspiration and he was treated with an empiric 7-day course of Ceptaz and Flagyl for aspiration pneumonia. 
This course was completed earlier in his hospital stay. 
He was also initially treated with vancomycin. 
A PICC was placed on 8/7/06 for further antibiotic management of his bacteremia. 
His vancomycin was switched to IV penicillin and this will be continued for a full 3-4 week course on 1/15/07. 
A TEE was considered unnecessary given the fact that he was going to be treated anyway with antibiotics for 4 weeks. 
All blood , urine , sputum cultures and stool cultures remained no growth to date at the time of discharge. 
2. Pulmonary: As mentioned above , the patient demonstrated some apnea in the Emergency Department which resolved with CPAP; however , given the fact that the patient was a significant aspiration risk , a CPAP was considered unnecessary and possibly would increase the risk of aspiration. 
Pulmonary was consulted , who felt that the patient was demonstrating Cheyne-Stokes respirations secondary to possible CHF or history of CVAs that he has had in the past. 
His ABG , as I mentioned above , demonstrated respiratory alkalosis with a mild metabolic alkalosis as well. 
His repeat ABG showed no significant change , which likely indicates a chronic process. 
He did not demonstrate any PEs on studies that were performed here. 
No pneumonia was noted and the desaturations that were detected while the patient was sleeping overnight on 15 units O2 sat monitor resolved quickly with 2 liters of oxygen by nasal cannula. 
A plan was made to not reinitiate CPAP given the aspiration risk. 
He was initially diuresed mildly with Lasix. 
This was eventually discontinued. 
The patient should receive nighttime supplemental oxygen , particularly if he desaturates to less than 90%. 
3. Cardiovascular: The patient is status post an MI , status post PCI in 2004. 
His enzymes were negative on this admission and a repeat EKG was unchanged from previous. 
The patient was restarted on his home doses of aspirin , statin , beta blocker 2 pump. 
The patient's ejection fraction was 45-50% with inferior wall hypokinesis. 
Hypotension improved on admission , restarted his beta blocker and his ACE inhibitor and IV fluids at the time of discharge. 
Re the patient's history of a-fib , he was in normal sinus rhythm for the majority of his hospital stay. 
Coumadin was held peri-procedure when he was getting his PEG placed and vitamin K had been administered in view of his supratherapeutic Coumadin. 
His Coumadin should be restarted on 2/18/07. 
Of note as well for rhythm issues , the patient was kept on potassium and magnesium scales while in hospital and he has a partial pacemaker placed for his sick sinus syndrome. 
4. GI: The patient had a history of constipation. 
His abdomen was tympanitic when he first presented. 
He was given a bowel regimen and has subsequently begun making good solid stool. 
Midway through his hospital course , the patient developed trouble with eating. 
He had multiple NG tubes placed which he was self-discontinuing requiring urgent reconsideration of more permanent feeding tubes. 
A discussion was held between our service and the GI team , who felt that a PEG would be useful for managing this patient's feeding in the future. 
On 10/1/06 , GI endoscopically placed a PEG tube for future feeding. 
Nutrition was consulted and tube feeds were re-initiated that evening. 
Again , his Coumadin will be held until 9/14/07 so as to promote appropriate wound healing around the site of the PEG placement. 
5. Heme: The patient had a history of anemia but did not demonstrate any acute hematocrit drops. 
His INR on admission was 1.9. 
We had transiently restarted Coumadin but he will have to restart that again on 9/14/07 , given the fact that it was held for his PEG placement. 
He was continued on iron supplements during his hospital stay. 
6. Renal: The patient , as discussed above , has demonstrated a respiratory alkalosis with a mild metabolic alkalosis as well. 
His creatinine was mildly elevated which is secondary to chronic renal insufficiency for unclear reasons. 
His creatinine by the time of discharge had improved dramatically to 0.7. 
7. Endocrine: The patient's oral hypoglycemics were held during this hospital stay. 
He was started on insulin sliding-scale and Lantus. 
As his feeding has increased and his tube feeds have reached goal , his Lantus has had to be titrated up. 
He is currently at 15 units q. 
p.m. He may need more while at the facility that he is going to. 8. GU: The patient has a history of vesiculous spermatocele or hydrocele , which is going to be followed by urology as an outpatient. 
We had held his Flomax initially given low blood pressure but we restarted it during his hospital stay here. 
9. FEN: As mentioned above , the patient is on aspiration precautions secondary to speech and swallow evaluation that was consistent with aspiration. 
NG tubes were placed multiple times but were self-discontinued by the patient. 
Finally , a PEG tube was placed on 3/2 and tube feeds were reinitiated that evening. 
10: Psych: The patient has a history of being mildly agitated. 
Zyprexa was initiated here at home doses of 2.5 mg q. day and then titrated up to 2.5 mg b.i.d. 
The patient has responded very nicely to this and is no longer agitated. 
11. 
Prophylaxis: He was kept on TEDS and P-boots. 
Coumadin as mentioned above will need to be restarted on 9/14/07 and Nexium was to continue while he is here. 
The patient is full code. 
His contacts include his son ( 299 ) 288-4842 and Meas , his daughter ( 766 ) 594-1901. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: See addendum DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAM: Notable for a temperature of 98.4 T max , his current is 96.6. 
His heart rate is in the 90s. 
His blood pressure has been stable in the 110-120s/70-80s. 
His respirations have been 18-20 , satting 92-96% on room air. 
In general , he is in no acute distress. 
His lungs are with coarse bilateral breath sounds. 
His rate and rhythm were regular without murmurs. 
His abdomen is soft and nontender with good bowel sounds. 
His extremities are without edema. 
He is to be discharged today , 2/27/06 , to rehabilitation where they will focus primarily on his physical therapy and rehab needs. 
eScription document: 9-6109780 HSSten Tel Dictated By: GOBRECHT , ALVERTA Attending: LACY LEOTA MCAUSLAND , M.D. GM2 Dictation ID 4698502 D: 2/27/06 T: 2/27/06