450909216 | PUO | 15916569 | | 5848785 | 7/6/2003 12:00:00 AM | CELLULITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 7/6/2003 Report Status: Signed Discharge Date: 6/2/2003 ATTENDING: GENOVEVA STIDMAN MD SERVICE: GMS Eriknox DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: 1. Osteomyelitis of the left foot. 
2. Cellulitis of the right and left foot. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable. 
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. COPD. 2. Asthma. 
3. Peripheral vascular disease status post fem pop in 2001 on left , 1999 fem pop on right ( no known CAD last echocardiogram 7/10 with an ejection fraction of 73% ). 4. Diabetes mellitus ( last hemoglobin A1c prior to admission was 7.7 in 9/18 ). 5. Hypertension. 
6. Peripheral neuropathy. 
7. Chronic renal insufficiency with baseline creatinine of 1.3 to 1.4. 
8. Multiple infections status post incision and drainage and amputation of the 5th left metatarsal in 10/15 for osteomyelitis ( tendency toward sepsis treated in the past with levofloxacin and clindamycin given allergies with success , also history of multiple cellulitis related to surgical incisions bilaterally in the thighs ). 9. History of methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus. 
10. 
Status post API. 
11. 
Status post cholecystectomy. 
12. Status post discectomy and laminectomy. 
Her podiatrist of record is Dr. Patella His telephone number is 110-465-5363. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: She is a 66-year-old female with severe diabetes mellitus type II , autoimmune hemolytic anemia , peripheral vascular disease , COPD , asthma , and history of multiple infections who presents with bilateral lower extremity area edema , swelling , and pain. 
She specifically complained of increasing erythema , swelling , and pain of the right second toe and left foot x 1 day. 
She saw her podiatrist on the morning of admission , 7/6/2003 , and her right toe was drained at that time , yielding pus. 
Cultures were drawn and it was noted that she was have increasing erythema over the right ankle and the left foot all the way to the shin. 
She had no fever but did have chills , no shortness of breath or cough , wheezing , no dizziness or orthostatic symptoms. 
She had recently been admitted between 8/7/2003 and 3/2/2003 for a COPD flare , pneumonia , and anemia. 
She is known to hemolyze additionally in the setting of infection. 
At that time she was treated on steroids and at the time of this admission , was on a prednisone taper. 
During that prior admission , she had also being treated with levofloxacin , was transfused 4 units of packed red blood cells , and was also being treated with Aramis. 
She had had an abdominal CT during that admission for left upper quadrant pain , which demonstrated no evidence of splenic infarct. 
In the ED on this admission , she was afebrile , her vital signs were stable , she was started on levofloxacin , and she had plain films of her right foot , which were consistent with evidence of chronic versus acute osteomyelitis of the second toe. 
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: On review of systems , she denied any chest pain , urinary symptoms , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and her fingerstick , she mentioned , had been running high , to the 250s on prednisone. 
She has a left plantar ulcer as well , which she had planned on having surgery soon for. 
ALLERGIES: To Keflex , Ultram , Vancomycin , and Linezolid. 
With Linezolid , she gets headaches and hypertension , with Vancomycin hives , Ultram produces systemic reaction of unclear nature , and to Keflex her allergy is questionable because she has tolerated cephalosporins and penicillins in the past by report of the admitting team. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is a former nurse at Pagham University Of She is married and has one daughter. 
She has a 35-pack year history of smoking but she quit in 1994. 
No alcohol use. 
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Notable for an elevated blood pressure of 150/70 , stable heart rate of 70 , afebrile , saturating 100% on room air , breathing at 18. Other notable aspects of her physical examination: Chest: She had a left carotid bruit. 
Her chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally with the exception of mild diffuse inspiratory wheezes. 
Cardiac: She had a regular rate , distant heart sounds on her cardiac examination but no murmurs , rubs , or gallops. 
Abdomen: Benign. 
Back: No CVA tenderness in her extremities. 
Extremities: She had tense edema , left greater than right. 
She also had an ulcer on the plantar surface of the left extremity , which was not fluctuant but did have serosanguinous drainage and erythema that was circumferential to the mid-shin. 
There was more tenderness over the lateral malleolus. 
She also had some left calf tenderness with a questionable palpable cord. 
In her right lower extremity , she had erythema over the right second toe with a punctate lesion draining serosanguinous fluid. 
Discontinuous erythema over the interior shin was also noted. 
She had diffuse onychomycosis and right intradigital ulceration between the 4th and 5th toe. 
There was not right calf tenderness that was noted. 
Neurological: Neurological was grossly intact and there were no focal deficits noted. 
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: 1. Infectious Disease: Her blood cultures were positive for gram-positive cocci , which was resistant to methicillin , clindamycin , and levofloxacin. 
She had an MRI of the lower extremities bilaterally , which demonstrated no collections but was notable for acute osteomyelitis of the left 2nd and 3rd metatarsal as well as chronic osteitis of the calcaneous wounds. 
The right phalanges were not visualized well. 
She was started on Levaquin initially but this was discontinued when the sensitivities came back and instead she was started on dopthromycin. 
Infectious Disease was consulted at this time and the antibiotics were changed to Bactrim IV and then to p.o. Bactrim secondary to an increase in her creatinine. 
A TTE on 2/21/2003 was negative for any vegetation. 
She underwent debridement on 10/19/2003 in the afternoon. 
The material was sent for culture. 
She also complained of sternal discomfort , dysphasia , and oral thrush on examination , and it was felt that she likely had oral candidiasis secondary to her steroid course and so she was started on Diflucan as well as on a nystatin swish and swallow. 
The cultures from her bone tissue were positive methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus as well as beta-hemolytic streptococcus. 
Infectious Disease once again felt that , given her allergies , that p.o. Bactrim would be the best way to treat these pathogens. 
On 3/19/2003 , the Diflucan was discontinued and she was continued on nystatin swish and swallow for the oral candidiasis , which has since been improving. 
She is also being continued on Bactrim and her creatinine has stabilized at 1.9 after peaking at 2.2. 
She has follow ups scheduled with the Infectious Disease physicians on 1/27/2004 and will be continuing her Bactrim for a full 6-week course with weekly CBC checks , which will be monitored by her primary care physician , Dr. Annette Schoultz 2. Heme: The patient has a history of autoimmune hemolytic anemia. 
Her hematologist of record is Dr. Weidenbach On her last admission , she required transfusions and was thought to have hemolyzed in the setting of her pneumonia although her hemolysis labs at that time were negative. 
On this admission , her LDH and bilirubins were normal , her hematocrit steadily decreased from 38.8 to 27 and then increased. 
She had an increase in her LDH but no schistocytes were notable on smear. 
Nevertheless , she was thought to be hemolyzing and received a total of 6 units of packed red blood cells , given in doses of 2 units each over the course of this hospitalization. 
She was transfused successfully without any complications or transfusion reactions and her hematocrit at the time of discharge is 36.0. 3. Pulmonary: The patient's prednisone taper was discontinued on day 4 because of oral candidiasis. 
She was continued on nebs , however , for intermittent wheezing. 
She has had no acute COPD exacerbations but has had increased shortness of breath periodically , which has been improved with nebulizer treatments. 
Chest x-ray on 1/7/2003 demonstrated a small bilateral effusion. 
She was thought to be fluid overloaded at this time so her Lasix was restarted for diuresis. 
Also of note , the patient had pain in the left posterior lower lung field , which was pleuritic in nature. 
She had LENIs done , which were negative , had a PE protocol CT on 1/7/2003 , which was negative. 
At that time , she was diuresed and her pleuritic left lower lobe chest pain resolved with diuresis. 
She had a recurrence of this pain 2 days prior to discharge after receiving 2 units of packed red blood cells , which presumably led to a volume overload situation. 
However , once again , after diuresis , she had complete resolution of her symptoms. 
At this time , the CT scan was reviewed to ensure that there was no fracture of the ribs as she did have tenderness in the left lower lung field area. 
However , the ribs were visualized well and there was no evidence of any fracture. 
4. Cardiovascular: The patient was continued on Toprol and her Diovan was held secondary to elevated potassium. 
She had intermittent chest pain without EKG changes , possibly secondary to esophageal spasm , which was relieved by nitroglycerine. 
Her enzymes were negative for the first episode. 
Her troponin was 0.25 on random draw. 
This was likely a false positive and her enzymes thereafter were negative. 
She had a preoperative MIBI on 10/11/2003 , which demonstrated a moderate area of reversible ischemia in the territory of the right coronary artery. 
The decision was made , however , to go ahead with the surgery for her feet with spinal block , not with general anesthesia. 
Her Toprol was increased to 75 mg q.d. given her MIBI findings. 
Her goal heart rate was set for the 60s and a low-dose statin was also added to her regimen. 
It was felt that the cardiovascular plan in terms of her coronary artery disease should be to increase her exercise tolerance during rehab to the point where she may begin to experience symptoms and then cap at that time can be considered. 
Towards the end of the patient's hospitalization , she required diuresis , particularly after receiving boluses of volume with her blood transfusions. 
It was noted that , when her volume status went up , she had an increase in swelling of her lower extremities bilaterally as well as recurrences of her left-sided back pain in the area of the left lower lung field. 
However , as noted before , these improved with diuresis. 
5. Renal: Her baseline creatinine is 1.3 to 1.4 , increased on this admission likely due secondary to the dye load , which she received prior to scans. 
Her creatinine peaked at 2.7 with the IV Bactrim but began to trend down after the IV Bactrim was discontinued. 
Other reasons for which her creatinine likely increased during this admission were secondary to her dopthromycin and also secondary to the IV Bactrim. 
6. Endocrine: The patient's blood sugars have been well controlled after her prednisone was discontinued and she was maintained on a regimen of NPH. 7. Ophthalmology: The Ophthalmology team was consulted for a new left floater. 
The patient has a history of vitreous hemorrhages and questionable retinal detachment in the past. 
The optic examination was notable for vitreous bleed. 
In response to this , the head of the patient's bed was elevated and her symptoms were stable thereafter. 
If she has a recurrence of curtains symptoms or spots or flashes , it is recommended that Ophthalmology be reconsulted at that time. 
8. GI: The patient had complained of right upper quadrant pain during this admission. 
Her liver function tests were elevated when initially checked. 
It was recommended by Infectious Disease since these would be monitored with IV Bactrim. 
They have been trending down since she is status post cholecystectomy and was initially very tender in her right upper quadrant. 
Her right upper quadrant ultrasound on 10/19/2003 was negative except for an enlarged liver alkaline phosphatase that was thought to be secondary to osteomyelitis. 
Her right upper quadrant pain improved subsequently during this hospital course with continued diuresis and antibiotic treatment. 
DISCHARGE CONDITION: The patient is being discharged at this time in stable condition to the rehab facility. 
She is being discharged on the following medications. 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: 1. Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. 2. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. 3. Folate1 mg p.o. b.i.d. 4. Heparin 5000 units p.o. b.i.d. 5. NPH insulin 50 units q.a.m. , 20 units q.p.m. 6. Nystatin suspension 10 ml p.o. swish and swallow q.i.d. 7. Regular insulin sliding scale: If blood sugar less than 200 , give 0 units; if blood sugar 201-250 , give 4 units; if blood sugar 251-300 , give 6 units; if blood sugar 301-350 , give 8 units; if blood sugar 351-400 , give 10 units and call physician. 
8. Multivitamin 1 tablet p.o. q.d. 9. Zocor 10 mg p.o. q.h.s. 10. 
Toprol XL 75 mg p.o. q.d. 11. 
Bactrim Double Strength 1 tablet p.o. t.i.d. for a full 6-week course , which will end on 9/13/2003. 
12. Flovent 200 mcg inhaled b.i.d. 13. 
Caltrate plus Vitamin D 1 tablet p.o. q.d. 14. 
Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. 15. 
Duonebs 3/0.5 mg nebulized treatments q. 6 hours. 
16. 
Saline eye drops 2 drops o.u. t.i.d. 17. Lasix 80 mg p.o. q.d. 18. Senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. 19. 
Aramis 200 mcg subcutaneous q. 2 weeks. 
Most recent dose 1/7/2003 ; next dose due 4/15/2003. 
20. Neurontin 500 mg p.o. b.i.d. 21. Artificial Tear Drops 2 drops o.u. q.i.d. 
PRN MEDICATIONS: 1. Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 6 hours p.r.n. headache. 
2. Albuterol nebulized treatments 2.5 mg q. 2 hours p.r.n. shortness of breath and wheezing. 
3. Dulcolax 5 mg p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation. 
4. Lactulose 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation. 
5. Maalox Plus 15 ml p.o. q. 6 hours p.r.n. indigestion. 
6. Milk of Magnesia 30 ml p.o. q.d. p.r.n. constipation. 
7. Dulcolax suppository 10-20 mg p.r. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation. 
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Please follow up with primary care physician , Dr. Annette Schoultz , once a week for checking CBC , BUN , and creatinine. 
As per the Infectious Disease team , please FAX these results the Infectious Disease attending at 725-913-6369. 
2. Patient has follow up appointment with the Infectious Disease Clinic with the attending , Dr. Loan Kuharik , on 1/27/2004 at 3:30 p.m. at Pagham University Of . 
3. Patient requires follow up with Orthopedic Surgery with Dr. Goodnow and she has instructions to call Dr. Goodnow 's office and set up this appointment. 
INTERIM INSTRUCTIONS FOR REHABILITATION FACILITY: 1. Please check patient's daily weight and adjust her Lasix dose based on changes in her weight and also clinical evidence of volume overload. 
2. Please check patient's CBC , BUN , and creatinine on a weekly basis. 
She is receiving Bactrim p.o. 3. Please monitor patient's feet bilaterally and change dressings as needed. 
eScription document: 7-9046469 VSSten Tel Dictated By: WYNDHAM , MAXIE Attending: STIDMAN , GENOVEVA Dictation ID 5211515 D: 1/21/03 T: 1/21/03